AdvertisementSupported byA man suffering from cancer strapped to a gurney after spending 30 years on death row in Alabama. An intravenous team probing him, jabbing him, for hours in an attempt to find a usable vein to administer the lethal, secret drug cocktail. Going into his groin a half-dozen times, puncturing his bladder, penetrating his femoral artery. Until, a little before the midnight deadline, they abandon the botched execution with its puncture-mark traces tattooed across the man’s legs and groin.Doyle Lee Hamm, age 61, becomes one of the rare people to walk out of an execution chamber. “This was a bit of butchery that can only be described as torture,” his attorney, Bernard Harcourt, tells me.Not all is rosy in Alabama, a state long prominent in the United States death belt, where these events unfolded last Thursday. The state was the darling of the world in December when Le Monde, among other leading global newspapers, gave Alabama a front page headline for defeating the ultraconservative Republican bigot and accused sexual predator Roy Moore and electing a Democrat to the United States Senate. But Alabama is a place where old habits die hard.Corrections Commissioner Jeff Dunn was unmoved by the grotesque unexecution. “I wouldn’t necessarily characterize what we had tonight as a problem,” he said. That might just qualify, against stiff competition from the highest office in the land, as the dumbest statement of 2018.So began a macabre dance characterized by an unseemly determination to execute Hamm. The Alabama Supreme Court set an execution date late last year. U.S. Chief District Judge Karon Bowdre of the Northern District of Alabama granted a stay on Jan. 31. After an emergency appeal to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals, that stay was vacated on Feb. 13 and a medical examination ordered.To state the obvious, this is obscene. I won’t get into the merits of Hamm’s conviction here; suffice it to say there were oversights and misrepresentations. Nor will I dwell on the fact that under international law, 30 years on death row constitutes torture.I oppose the death penalty on the ground that it’s barbaric and increasingly unworkable. It’s also irreversible in a world where human error is so inescapable as to disqualify such absolute judgment. Even if you are not an abolitionist, however, the Hamm case must give pause.“This experience teaches us a deep fallacy in our justice system,” Harcourt says. “When federal courts so eagerly get into the business of trying to find novel ways to execute a man, when the most august judges get their fingers bloody in this way, I think it does an injustice to justice.”Harcourt was moved to help Hamm after learning of the abject quality of legal protection afforded indigent defendants in capital cases. After the Supreme Court denied his appeal on Thursday, and the execution looked inevitable, Harcourt told me he had said to Hamm that, “I did everything I possibly could have done but had let him down and I apologized.”Hamm, he said, tried to console his longtime attorney: “We did everything possible.”It is now time, after Thursday’s lesson in the consequences of inhumanity, for Gov. Kay Ivey of Alabama to grant Hamm clemency and allow him to serve the rest of his life in prison.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS