AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseThroughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump’s populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat.A White House spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Mr. Cohn.In any event, Mr. Trump may be oblivious to the staff turnover and widespread vacancies in the executive branch, and indifferent to calls to replace Mr. Kelly.“I don’t think Trump thinks much about management philosophy,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “He ran for president as a lark, and look at him now. For him it’s all upside.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe rush to enact the tax bill was designed to mask — as a break for the middle class — what is in fact a $1.4 trillion package of benefits for key donors and lobbyists, the richest members of Congress, President Trump, his family and other families like his.The authors cite a wide range of specific flaws, but their main argument is that the measure is gravely deficient at its core:The most serious structural problems with the bill are unavoidable outcomes of Congress’s choice to preference certain taxpayers and activities while disfavoring others — and for no discernible policy rationale. These haphazard lines are fundamentally unfair and inefficient, and invite tax planning by sophisticated taxpayers to get within the preferred categories.Glogower, Kamin, Kysar, and Shanske argue that some of the most egregious loopholes and schemes permitted by the legislation are that individual taxpayerswill be able to shield their labor income from tax by simply setting up a corporation and having their income accrue in the form of corporate profits. As a result, income that would have been taxed at the high individual rates is instead taxed at the low corporate rate.Second, the legislation creates a huge incentive for anyone in a position to do so to change his or her status from employee to “independent contractor or a partner in a firm. The game is clear: Don’t be an employee, instead be an independent contractor or partner in a firm.” The ability to make this shift is available primarily to the well-paid.The legislation, according to Glogower and his colleagues, also fails to present a coherent rationale:the fundamental problem is the lack of any underlying logic in deciding who benefits from the pass-through deductions, and who does not. Independent contractors and partners benefit, but not employees. Why? An owner of real estate through a REIT benefits, but not the doctor in the building. Why? An architect benefits in some ways that a lawyer does not. And so on.The bill encourages tax evasion. Glogower and his colleagues citeopportunities to use rate differentials and ill-considered transitions to engage in transactions that serve to basically pump money out of the Treasury and into the pockets of well-advised taxpayers.To provide an example, they use a company that purchased equipment under existing law, which provides them with tax breaks on the cost spread out over the years in a depreciation schedule. The new law allows companies to immediately write off the full cost of buying equipment, known as expensing.“So,” the authors ask, “what does that mean?”It means that old property can still get the benefit of expensing, but only if it is sold to another party. If the original owner holds it, they have to depreciate according to the old rules; if they sell it to another party, then suddenly the full cost is eligible for expensing, and the net effect is an immediate deduction of the existing tax basis of the asset. The parties can split the resulting surplus. It appears that the buyer of the asset could even lease it back to the existing owner, so that the property doesn’t even have to go anywhere.I emailed some of the authors of this report for their individual thoughts.Mitchell Kane, a law professor at N.Y.U., wrote in response that the bill willcreate new incentives to shift tangible assets (and jobs) abroad. Given President Trump’s relentless message about U.S. jobs, it is incomprehensible to me that we are about to pass something that has this effect without any kind of meaningful discussion of the issue.He noted thatlower and middle-income families, who are especially dependent upon inflation-indexed deductions, credits, and bracket thresholds, will feel the impact increasingly as time goes on.In the first year, 2018, the changed inflation rate raises a relatively modest $31.5 billion but it grows every year, reaching $37 billion in 2027. “To be sure,” Hemel wrote, “this affects everyone to some degree, but most of the burden is paid for by families in the bottom four quintiles.”In the long term, Hemel argued,this is a very subtle way to increase taxes on the lower and middle classes and then use those revenues to pay for a massive tax cut for corporations.This full-speed-ahead strategy simultaneously constrained the ability of the press to explore the special interest provisions buried in the legislation.A tax expert who insisted on anonymity in order to protect client confidentiality, emailed me his critique of the bill:(1) The corporate rate reduction is permanent, for individuals only temporary. Completely obnoxious. In effect the money “saved” within the 10 year budget window by making those individual cuts temporary helped to underwrite the cost of making the corporate/pass though side permanent(2) Carried interest provision. When Trump was careening around in his populist candidate mode, he promised to end it. Here is one campaign promise that he “somehow” failed to redeem when the clear and available chance presented itself.(3) Restriction on state and C local tax deduction — consciously vindictive imposition of double taxation on citizens of certain Democratic states; corporations and pass through businesses, the darlings of the Republicans, still get to deduct those very same taxes in full.(4) Expanding the standard deduction but financing the cost of so doing by repealing the personal exemptions is a bit of a bait and switch maneuver. Some people might be worse off.(5) In a bill in which 100s of billions of dollars were sloshing around to provide steep tax cuts for already wealthy and highly prosperous corporations and pass through businesses, the Republicans could only find the will to raise the refundable portion of the child care tax credit from $1000 to $1400. Rubio wanted it to be raised to $2000 and his Republican brethren refused to even meet him halfway. Pitiful.(6) Deduction for extraordinary medical expenses — retention of this deduction did not even get the five-year sunset window applied to all the other individual tax provisions, two years only. Vicious.(7) Pass through business taxation — the bill is a massive tax gift to some of the wealthiest people in the country, who are conducting business operations in non-corporate form or are investors in same.What amounted to three major pieces of legislation were approved by the full House and the Senate Finance Committee, “two weeks after the bill was unveiled, without a single hearing on the 400-plus-page legislation,” as Thomas Kaplan and Alan Rappeport put it in The Times.One of our jobs is to flesh out competing views with such seriousness and respect that we should be mitigating, not exacerbating, the polarization that does exist ...Good teachers don’t shut down debate; they try to model Socratic seriousness by putting the best possible construction on arguments, even — and especially — if one doesn’t hold those positions.for a return to regular order, letting committees of jurisdiction do the principal work of crafting legislation and letting the full Senate debate and amend their efforts. We won’t settle all our differences that way, but such an approach is more likely to make progress on the central problems confronting our constituents. We might not like the compromises regular order requires, but we can and must live with them if we are to find real and lasting solutions.So far, however, only one Republican senator has suffered real costs for deciding to vote for the tax bill.No way that Bob Corker is going to vote for a tax reform bill that I think in any way is going to add to the deficit. It’s not going to happen, never. It’s never going to happen. Never, never, ever.This is the most passionate thing for me, period, that I work on. Not foreign policy. Not banking. It’s this deficit issue.For Corker, this issue went way beyond routine politics: “Deficits matter,” he forcefully asserted. “They are a greater threat to us than North Korea or ISIS.”In the end, after 11 years in the Senate, I know every bill we consider is imperfect and the question becomes is our country better off with or without this piece of legislation. I think we are better off with it.All of this raises a basic question. How could nearly every Republican representative — and all 52 Republican senators — support the tax bill? The best answer may be the most cynical: because it benefits key leaders, their friends, their heirs and their donors.After looking at the legislation in its entirety — its substance and the procedures used to get there — it is difficult to conclude that the motivations of its sponsors are either benevolent or somehow in the best interests of the country. More likely it is hypocrisy and venality mixed up into one awful bill.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement(Reuters) - AT&T Inc reported lower-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday as the No. 2 U.S. wireless carrier lost subscribers from its pay TV business, sending its shares down more than 3 percent after the close of trading.The company has been relying on promotions and discounts to stabilise its wireless and pay-TV subscriber numbers, which have taken a toll on its margins, New Street Research analyst Jonathan Chaplin said in an interview.AT&T is fighting the U.S Department of Justice in court to complete its $85.4 billion (£61.27 billion) takeover of Time Warner Inc, which it has called necessary for it to compete for advertising dollars and in an industry increasingly dependent on content.Chaplin said AT&T's entertainment business performed worse than he expected in the quarter, coming in 4.5 percent lower than his forecast.AdvertisementNet income attributable to the company rose to $4.76 billion, or 75 cents per share, in the quarter, from $3.47 billion, or 56 cents per share, a year earlier.AdvertisementOn an adjusted basis, the company earned 85 cents per share in the first quarter, missing analyst estimates of 87 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.Total operating revenue fell 3.4 percent to $38.04 billion.The company attributed the revenue decline to a new accounting standard and held its full-year profit forecast steady. Excluding the accounting changes, revenue would have been $38.9 billion.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Analysts expected revenue of $39.31 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.Shares of the Dallas-based company fell more than 3 percent to $34.05 after the bell.The company, which owns satellite television service DirecTV, lost 187,000 traditional U.S. video customers, fewer than the 257,000 customers analysts had expected them to lose, according to research firm FactSet.As more viewers seek to cut pay-TV packages, AT&T added 312,000 customers to its DirecTV Now streaming service.The Time Warner deal, which would give AT&T access to content like HBO's "Game of Thrones" and Warner Bros' "Justice League," reflects AT&T's effort to compete for advertising dollars against Alphabet's Google and Facebook.AT&T Chief Executive Randall Stephenson surprised investors last week when he said during trial testimony that the company would introduce a new video service called AT&T Watch, a package of TV channels without sports, for $15 per month.(Reporting by Sheila Dang in New York and Pushkala Aripaka in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Scott Malone)Go to Home Page »Table for ThreeMr. Washington, next in “The Iceman Cometh” on Broadway, and Mr. Jordan, the “Black Panther” star, discuss their idols, black superheroes and #MeToo.Supported by“It was a big highlight,” Michael B. Jordan said, then looked down shyly into his lap.“When someone says you’re like your idol,” Mr. Jordan said, “It’s like: ‘Really? You see that in me?’ I’d only done that one movie. But then I started using it as motivation,” he said. “I wanted to pop up on Denzel’s radar. He’s the O.G. If I could get recognition from him, I know I’m going down the right path, you know?”Finally, Mr. Washington broke in with a booming laugh: “And here we are, Mike! Looks like it’s working out already,” he said.In truth, it would be hard for an actor to choose a better role model than Mr. Washington. In a career spanning more than 40 years and 50 films — and kicked off by the hit TV drama “St. Elsewhere” — Mr. Washington, 63, has been nominated for nine Academy Awards. He won twice: for best actor as a terrifying rogue cop in “Training Day” and for best supporting actor as a Union soldier in an African-American army unit in “Glory.” And he was nominated for best actor Oscars in both of the last two years.Over a cocktail hour at the Lambs Club in Manhattan (a Diet Coke for Mr. Washington, a sauvignon blanc for Mr. Jordan), the actors traded notes about creating characters and the socially minded work that really matters to them. These are excerpts from the conversation.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIt’s official: Returns for college and university endowments for the 2017 fiscal year are in, and while they averaged a respectable 12.2 percent for the year, over the last decade they have underperformed funds offering a simple 60-40 or 70-30 stock-fixed income allocation.With their average returns dragged down by the weak performance of hedge funds, venture capital and private equity, you would think endowments would be fleeing these so-called alternative investments, which are costly and mostly illiquid, as some large pension funds have done.On the contrary, endowments are holding firm, or even adding to these holdings. Last year, alternative investments accounted for an average of 52 percent of endowment assets — over 60 percent in the largest endowments — the same percentage as two years ago, according to the annual Nacubo-Commonfund study of endowments.Yet over the last 10 years, the average endowment earned a 4.6 percent annualized return, lower than the 5.3 percent return for a low-cost 60-40 stock-bond index fund portfolio and 5.4 percent for a 70-30 mix.AdvertisementFor endowments greater than $1 billion, the average return was 5 percent. Had they realized that extra three-tenths of a percent, or 30 basis points, that the 60-40 portfolio delivered, they’d have on average an additional $47 million in their endowments.The trend is likely to be even more pronounced next year, when the financial crisis results of the 2009 fiscal year drop out of the 10-year calculations. That’s because alternatives did provide something of a buffer during that severe bear market, but have mostly underperformed since.Five-year averages suggest the magnitude of the gap: The average endowment had annualized five-year returns of 5.9 percent. A 60-40 mix returned 8.2 percent, and a 70-30 mix returned 9.2.“That’s tens of millions of dollars that could have otherwise funded scholarships, built a new museum wing or bolster the corpus of the endowment to help future generations,” said Christopher Philips, head of Vanguard Institutional Advisory Services. (He’s not a disinterested observer: Vanguard is a major purveyor of — and advocate for — low-cost index and mutual funds.)“It’s frustrating because these institutions do so much good work, and most of them could be doing so much better,” Mr. Philips said.AdvertisementEven Yale University, which pioneered the so-called Yale Model now slavishly followed by many other endowments, and has a target allocation of nearly 90 percent of its assets in alternative assets, has seen its outperformance shrink in recent years. Yale delivered an 11.3 percent return for 2017, but that was below the average return for all endowments of 12.2 percent, according to the study by Nacubo, the National Association of College and University Business Officers.Yale still boasts a stellar 20-year annualized return of 12.1 percent, far above the endowment 20-year average of 7.4 percent, according to the university. But its 10-year annualized return has slipped to just 6.6 percent. (That still puts it in the top 5 percent of all endowment returns.) Still, Yale told me that its chief investment officer, David Swensen, is bullish on the school’s portfolio relative to stocks and bonds for the next 10 years.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The endowments’ persistent devotion to high-cost alternative assets in the face of such poor performance, now documented across a decade-long span, baffles many. “We keep scratching our heads,” Mr. Philips of Vanguard said.“Among the schools we survey, there’s a strong belief in the endowment model pioneered 30 years or so ago by Yale and a few other schools,” said Kenneth E. Redd, senior director of research and policy analysis for Nacubo. “We’re not seeing any changes in portfolio alignment or investment philosophy even though the indexes have clearly outperformed both managed funds and hedge funds. There’s still this belief that alternatives will provide some measure of outperformance.”He noted that endowments of more than $1 billion, which tend to have high allocations to alternatives, did on average outperform the 60-40 mix (but not the 70-30 mix) over the most recent five-year period.Jeff Schwartz, Markov’s president, agreed. “We’re talking about true believers in the value of alternatives,” he said. Many endowment managers, he added, “aren’t completely objective.”“They’ve seen it work in the past, sometimes in a spectacular way,” he continued. “It’s hard to take an embedded belief system like that and say, just because we’ve had an outstanding bull market, that you should move to 60-40. That’s a tall order.”AdvertisementGiven the need to cover increased costs, not to mention the recent tax legislation that seeks to tax the wealthiest endowments, asset managers at colleges are under increasing pressure to generate higher returns, even as lofty stock valuations and rising interest rates “suggest it will be hard to get 7.5 percent with a traditional asset mix going forward,” Mr. Philips said.“So there’s a strong inclination to turn to something that promises higher returns,” he said, even if they haven’t delivered in the recent past.He also pointed to the “massive marketing machine in the alternative space,” which is “causing investment managers to turn a blind eye to what’s really happening in financial markets.”Universities depend heavily on draws from their endowments — typically 5 percent or more per year — to meet spending needs, and are still haunted by memories of the financial crisis. This month’s stock market volatility was a painful reminder.So the promise of alternative investments to mitigate risk and protect against market downturns has been powerful, even if they haven’t delivered.But with long-term — even infinite — time horizons, university endowments should be able to withstand market volatility.“We’re aware of the need to support current spending,” Mr. Philips said, “but if growing the corpus to support future spending is a primary objective, there should be more traditional equity exposure, not less. Adding nontraditional assets would be O.K. if they were compensating for illiquidity and higher risk, but they’re not.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseMost presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”The tax overhaul has prompted hundreds of employers, including at least 40 members of the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, to pass on savings to workers.Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.How sensitive the stock market is to interest rates was on display the same day as Mr. Trump’s speech, when shares plunged on fears of higher rates after the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.7 percent; that’s still very low by historic standards, but higher than when Mr. Trump took office.The big tax cut is a large economic stimulus, and “right now stimulus is a danger,” said Professor Auerbach, given that there is nearly full employment and already-strong economic growth.We’ll know a year from now whether the Federal Reserve stuck with its projected three increases in rates this year, and whether any exceeded quarter-point increments.The bottom line: Presidents tend to get credit (or blame) for whatever economies they preside over, but it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s long-term impact. Even after years have passed, Professor Slemrod said, “We’ll never know with 100 percent certainty.”videoAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAmong Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.AdvertisementAnd then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.AdvertisementBob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.AdvertisementBoth officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.AdvertisementIndianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.AdvertisementMr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.Indianapolis may never emerge as the popular favorite to win, but I wouldn’t count it out.Maureen Krauss, the chamber’s chief economic development officer, who worked on Indianapolis’s proposal, said a team of about 300 people had contributed to the first-round effort, and they worked 43 days straight.“We finished it two days early,” she said. “Amazon is a creative company and a tech company, and that’s the kind of proposal we tried to deliver.”She and Mr. Huber got the good news that Indianapolis was a finalist on Thursday last week, but there was no celebration. “We hunkered down and started on Phase 2,” Mr. Huber said.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.AdvertisementAs the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”AdvertisementNow, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.AdvertisementMr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.Advertisement“He has a much broader capacity than people in the District of Columbia give him credit for,” Mr. Gingrich said of the president. “People get so wound up in the goofier things he does, the tweets and outrageous statements. But underneath that is a very methodical and pragmatic businessman. He knows how to use competent people.”Whether Mr. Trump can replace the departing Goldman alumni with people of similar stature remains to be seen. Mr. Gingrich pointed to Mr. Trump’s appointment of Jerome Powell as the new Federal Reserve chairman as evidence that he will be able to recruit top economic talent.Professor Smith said anyone considering a job at the White House would have to weigh the high risks of tethering his or her reputation to the Trump presidency. Even so, he said, “you can never underestimate the allure of being a big shot in Washington.’’“Not that many Goldman partners are known outside the firm,’’ he added. “Why hang out at Goldman when you could be having lunch on Mount Olympus?”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAs it stands now, the proposed House tax bill would give the undeserving rich — legatees who will inherit multimillion dollar estates — a $172.2 billion tax break over the next ten years. In doing so, the measure would further entrench the super rich, a class that in recent years has acquired a growing share of both income and wealth.Jason Furman, a professor of economics at Harvard’s Kennedy School who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 2013 to 2017, emailed his response to my inquiry about the impact of the bill on households with different incomes:The House tax bill would lead to substantial redistribution from the middle-class to high-income households. Moreover, the particular form of the high-income tax cuts is designed to reward and perpetuate wealth in several respects. Much of the corporate rate cut would provide a windfall for the returns on capital investments that have already been made. Going forward, much of the effect of the plan would be to reduce the tax on monopoly rents — often to negative effective rates which means taxpayers would be subsidizing corporations.estate tax repeal would have eliminated. This would mean that not only are estates not taxed but that much of capital gains could permanently escape taxation, substantially increasing dynastic wealth accumulation.While proposing to eliminate the estate tax altogether, the House bill would retain a provision in current law — the step-up in basis — that effectively wipes out all tax liability for heirs on the increased value of assets at the time of death. Forbes declared, “this is a tax cut for the rich,” and described what would happen using the step-up in basis if you died with an estate that had grown in value from $10 million to $100 million:There would be no estate tax, and your heirs could sell the stock right after your death and owe no capital gains taxes on the $90 million gain.Many of the very richest Americans have children who stand to benefit enormously if the proposed tax bill is enacted. The list of these billionaires includes Mark Zuckerberg, Michael Bloomberg, Larry Ellison, Charles Koch, Sergey Brin, Larry Page, Phil Knight, Carl Icahn, Pierre Omidyar, David Koch, Warren Buffett, Bill Gates, Steve Ballmer, Sheldon Adelson, Michael Dell, Jeff Bezos, George Soros, and, of course, Donald Trump.repealing the tax would give about 330 estates (which are each worth more than $50 million) each a tax cut averaging more than $20 million compared to current law.The estate-tax provisions in the proposed bill are explicitly designed to help preserve and protect the assets of the wealthiest Americans. And despite their stated purpose, the corporate tax breaks in the legislation will not encourage new investment, according to many economists, but will instead reduce the taxes due on existing investments.Alan Krueger, a professor of economics at Princeton who was the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 2011 to 2013, put the case against the Republican tax bill succinctly in an email:Several components of the House bill favor physical and financial capital over labor and human capital — namely, the lower rate for passive pass through income, the repeal of the estate tax, the big cut in the corporate tax rate, the failure to end the carried interest loophole, etc. At the same time, the tax on university endowments and treatment of grad student fellowships will slow human capital investment.If enacted, these features of the proposal would also deepen and further entrench existing class divisions and reduce economic mobility.One of the biggest obstacles facing critics of the tax bill is that laws governing taxation are extremely complex. The description of the bill by the Joint Committee on Taxation is 299-pages long and it details only the bill’s provisions, without any discussion of possible economic consequences. Crucial provisions governing arcane but crucial matters like carried interest, step-up in basis, pass-through corporations and passive investments are inherently opaque.In an effort to inform the public, the Joint Committee and the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center have released charts and analyses explaining who benefits and who loses by income class. Both the committee and the center challenge Republican claims that the main goal of the legislation is to give the middle class a tax break.The largest cuts, in dollars and as a percentage of after-tax income, would accrue to higher-income households. However, not all taxpayers would receive a tax cut under this proposal — at least 7 percent of taxpayers would pay higher taxes under the proposal in 2018 and at least 25 percent of taxpayers would pay more in 2027.By 2027, the center found, those in the bottom two quintiles would, on average, get very modest annual cuts of $10 and $40; those in the third, fourth and fifth quintiles would get average cuts of $320, $710 and $3,860. Those in the top 1 percent would get a $52,780 tax cut and those in the top 0.1 percent a $278,370 cut.In other words, the Trump tax bill, contrary to the president’s populist spin, is a classic trickle-down proposal, concentrating by far the largest share of benefits on corporations and the rich.The most expensive parts of the tax bill are a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35 to 20 percent, with lost revenues totaling $1.46 trillion over ten years, along with a five-year provision letting corporations immediately write off the entire cost of capital investments, instead of depreciating them over several years, with an additional revenue loss of $84.2 billion.Larry Summers, a professor of economics at Harvard who served as secretary of the Treasury from 1999 to 2001, argues, along with a number of other economists, that the combination of the rate cut and the immediate write-off of investments — known as “expensing” — amounts to a very high-cost expenditure that produces very little social benefit.What is the compelling case for cutting the corporate rate to 20 per cent? Under the proposed plan, for at least five years businesses will be able to write off investments in new equipment entirely in the year they are made. So the government is sharing to an equal extent in the costs of and the returns from investment, eliminating any tax induced disincentive to invest. The effective tax rate on new investment is reduced to zero or less, before even considering the corporate rate reduction. Corporate rate reduction serves only to reward monopoly profits, other rents or past investments. After the trends of the past few years, are shareholders really the most worthy recipients of a windfall?if corporations can immediately write off new investments for equipment, then the corporate rate cut on those investments amounts to only a windfall gain, cutting taxes on returns to old investment. With expensing, corporations that use debt financing with tax deductible interest payments end up getting tax rebates to cover some of the costs of new investments regardless of the statutory tax rate.So what must you do, or whom must you be, to get the 25% rate? First, you get it for 100% of your net business income from passive activities, which generally are business activities in which you personally do not materially participate. This typically applies to people who invest money in all kinds of partnerships, S corporation activities, et cetera that engage in pretty much any type of business.Shaviro calls this obscure set of provisions in the tax bill “a weapon to enhance plutocracy — offering the biggest rate cut to millionaires,” allowing those “who are in effect rentiers to get the low (25 percent) rate” on all their income.Pass-through income would be taxed at no more than 25 percent, far below the 39.6 percent top individual income tax rate that now applies to pass-through income, or the top 35% top rate that would apply to individual income under the GOP plan. This would provide a massive windfall to the very wealthy.This section of the bill has been nicknamed the “Trump loophole” by the centerbecause Donald Trump exemplifies the type of business owner whom it would most benefit.We don’t know how much Trump collects in such income, which has become passive for him since he put his children in charge of his enterprises rather than running them himself. But given that he seems to have stakes in at least 500 pass-through entities, it looks like reducing his rate to 25 percent from 39.6 percent would save him a ton of money.Ditch the pass-through break, the one that taxes income of partnerships and other businesses organized in forms other than corporations at a rate lower than it taxes wages. This is a compliance and complexity nightmare. There’s no economic reason to apply lower tax rates on businesses based on how they are organized, no justification to tax entrepreneurial income differently based on how it is earned, and no way to differentiate between one form of business activity and other without onerous rules and intrusive audits.For political reasons, Looney argues, Republicans should eliminate the break tohelp avoid the caricature of “tax cuts for the rich.” No form of income is more concentrated among top-income taxpayers than pass-through business income and the reduced rate would only benefit taxpayers in the highest two brackets (e.g., married taxpayers earning over $260,000).AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsThe extraordinary rise in the value of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies has led many people to worry that this market is a giant bubble. Many, including the Federal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen and the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, have warned about a “Bitcoin bust” that could rival the dot-com crash of 2000 and wipe out speculators.But the bigger concern about cryptocurrencies may be the damage they could do, in the long run, to government finances through lost tax revenue.The core technology underlying cryptocurrencies, known as blockchain, is premised on anonymity: Transactions are public but linked only to an electronic address. This is a big part of what makes blockchain attractive.But anonymity is also the main fuel for the underground economy, which is now conducted largely via cash. The underground economy is a significant source of lost tax revenue. The Internal Revenue Service estimates that it loses around $500 billion annually because of unreported wages alone. And the underground economy in the United States — estimated at 8.4 percent of output — is relatively small compared with those of other countries.If cryptocurrencies were to replace cash as the preferred anonymous medium of exchange, they could significantly expand the underground economy because they are so much more convenient than cash. There is no need to visit an A.T.M., and you can securely pay people regardless of their location. No wonder Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, expressed concerns recently that Bitcoin could become “the next Swiss bank account.”The I.R.S. understands this, which is why it has been pushing to break the anonymity of cryptocurrencies. In November, it persuaded a federal judge to order Coinbase, a popular Bitcoin exchange, to reveal the identity of the customers for more than 14,000 accounts (representing nearly nine million transactions).Blockchain technologies can also make it difficult for the I.R.S. to tax cryptocurrency trading profits. Here is a simple tax dodge that would be hard for the I.R.S. to prove: Suppose A, B and C are electronic addresses you own. You let the I.R.S. know you own A, but not B and C. You buy one Bitcoin at $15,000 and park it at A, expecting the price to go up. Just a few hours later, when a Bitcoin is worth $15,500, you send that Bitcoin to B and then to C.A few months later, when your Bitcoin is now worth $25,000, you send it from C to A and tell the I.R.S., “I sold a Bitcoin to an anonymous counterparty at B back at $15,500 and just now bought a Bitcoin from another anonymous counterparty at C for $25,000.” As a result, you owe taxes on capital gains of just $500 rather than $10,000.The I.R.S. can observe all the transactions between A, B and C on the Bitcoin blockchain, but it cannot disprove that B and C are “arm’s length” counterparties (that is, independent and not colluding). Rules in the United States that require financial institutions to verify the identity of address holders do not solve the problem, because as far as the I.R.S. knows, B and C could have been set up by a foreign institution that does not comply with such rules.It is inconceivable that the government would simply accept enormous revenue losses from a larger underground economy and from tax dodges on trading profits. The only question is how heavy-handed the response would be.One approach would be for the government to accept the difficulty of directly taxing cryptocurrency transactions and to offset the revenue losses by raising tax rates. The basic economics of taxation tells us that the economic losses from taxes increase exponentially with the tax rate, so this response would transform revenue losses into a lower gross domestic product.More likely, the United States would take a tougher approach and attempt to ban cryptocurrencies. This solution throws the baby out with the bath water. While cryptocurrencies open opportunities for tax evasion and illegal operations, they also offer drastic reductions in the cost of financial transactions, especially for the poor, and less reliance on banks, which can increase the power of the Federal Reserve to control money supply and reduce the risk of bank runs.A smarter response would be for the government to switch from taxing income when it is received to taxing income when it is spent. Many economists support moving to this kind of consumption tax, but it would require a major overhaul of the tax code.The prospect of substantial government revenue losses is not just a problem for the United States government; it is also a problem for the cryptocurrencies themselves. For cryptocurrencies to survive long enough to be an effective means of performing everyday transactions, the cryptocurrency community will need to find a way to prevent tax evasion. This will involve a tricky balancing act, preserving anonymity while providing the I.R.S. with sufficient information to prevent tax evasion.More generally, cracking down on tax evasion will require that the community learn to trust government. Since this goes against the very ethos of the cryptocurrency movement, it poses the most difficult — but no less necessary — challenge.Richard Holden is a professor of economics at the business school of the University of New South Wales. Anup Malani is a law professor at the University of Chicago.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS