AdvertisementSupported byIt’s no wonder that in the hall of mirrors that passes for the Trump administration’s legal policy shop, this case, U.S. Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of the University of California, looms large. Judge Alsup and, most recently, Judge Garaufis in Brooklyn, have called the president’s hand. Their analysis is a subtle one. Judge Alsup suggests, and Judge Garaufis says explicitly, that the president has the legal right to terminate the DACA program if he does so properly. What was improper about the order issued in September by the acting secretary of homeland security to wind DACA down in six months? Judge Alsup observed that the administration based its action not on a policy judgment, which might have rendered the termination unreviewable in court, but on a “mistake of law.” The judge noted that President Trump had repeatedly said and tweeted that he liked the Dreamers and wanted to help them. These statements left Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other die hard anti-immigrant presidential advisers with a problem. Disabled by the president himself from an all-out attack on DACA on policy grounds, they had to come up with another rationale for ending the program.What they came up with was something called “litigation risk.” It turned out that Texas and allied states, which had successfully gone to court to stop the Obama administration from expanding the DACA program to include more than four million parents of DACA-eligible children, had conveniently offered to sue to undo DACA itself. This lawsuit would succeed because the program was in fact illegal, Attorney General Sessions declared in a memo aimed at providing a seeming law-based, and therefore neutral, justification for ending the program.But that “pithy conclusion” of illegality was not the attorney general’s to reach, Judge Alsup said in his opinion, explaining that “determining illegality is a quintessential role of the courts.” He said the current DACA program and the earlier proposed expansion that the lower courts had invalidated were sufficiently distinct as to make improper a simple extrapolation from one to the other. The judge labeled the “litigation risk” explanation a “post hoc rationalization” — an explanation made up after the fact to fit a desired outcome.“Courts, of course, may not accept post hoc rationalizations for agency action,” he said. At the least, he added, when the government “abruptly changes course and terminates a program on which so many people rely,” the Administrative Procedure Act “requires a more detailed justification.” The injunction Judge Alsup issued is nationwide in scope. “Our country has a strong interest in the uniform application of immigration law,” he said, adding that limiting the injunction to individual states or plaintiffs would “simply provoke many thousands of individual lawsuits all over the country.”Even if the justices find Judge Alsup’s analysis questionable and the case surpassingly important, there is an obvious reason for the court to stay its hand: the possibility, however remote, of congressional action during the months it would surely take the court to issue a decision. Recruited to a walk-on role in the other branches’ drama, the justices could well find themselves exposed on an empty stage. At least this is how it looks to me, from the outside. Will it look that way from inside the justices’ private conference? I don’t know, but I’m sure of this: The future of more than the Dreamers is at stake.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS