AdvertisementSupported byLAKE LUZERNE, N.Y. — Rachael Ray washes and irons her own sheets, and those of anyone who stays in her guesthouse here.Pitching in with cooking or cleaning is nearly impossible, no matter how many times one offers. Like a friendly shark that needs to keep oxygen-rich water flowing over its gills, Ms. Ray survives on constant motion.“I don’t need help,” she said, moving me away from the ramps she was chopping. “This is my happy place.”Despite the kind of wealth that allows her to drop more than $80,000 on a private jet so her beloved pit bull, Isaboo, can travel to Italy with her and her husband, John Cusimano, she is still very much the upstate New York kid whose first job was running the dish machine at a restaurant her mother managed.She and Mr. Cusimano, an entertainment lawyer and a rock musician, spend as much time as they can in this house, which they built for $1 million a decade ago from reclaimed barn wood and stone blasted from the 199 acres it sits on. That’s big money here, but less than it cost them to buy a couple of rooms so they could expand their apartment in Greenwich Village.“I just want a place I can die,” she said. “It’s the Italian in me.”Here in the woods, Ms. Ray has the space to contemplate the next phase of a career arc that, at its zenith, sliced popular food culture down the middle: You either loved Rachael Ray or wanted her to drown in a vat of her own EVOO — her phrase for extra-virgin olive oil, which was added to the Oxford American College Dictionary in 2007.Ms. Ray rose to fame in the early 2000s, when the Food Network minted stars like the old Hollywood studio system. She was the cute girl next door with a little urban flair who could teach you how to cook dinner in half an hour.Now, facing her 50th birthday in August, she is trying to figure out how to steer a huge media and merchandise ship that is starting to show its age into fresh waters.Ms. Ray, a worrier prone to stress dreams the day before a big meeting, is steeling herself for what could be an uphill climb: making herself relevant to a new generation.Her plan of attack includes pitching digitally streamed shows that have more to do with food, travel and music than cooking. She wants to produce some and star in others. “It’s scary to go into a meeting where you are not the coolest person in the room,” she said. “It’s exciting, but it’s completely frightening.”She figures the worst that could happen is that she ends up staying right where she is. That’s a long way from the days when she was so broke that her hands shook when she swiped her debit card at the supermarket checkout, not sure if she had enough in the bank to cover $60 worth of groceries.Now, she has an American Express black card and more than enough money to care for an extended network of relatives in need; she takes her friends with her on vacation and doles out extravagant presents to the people who work for her. Her list of Christmas gift recipients is 30 pages long.She gives away so much money that you almost believe her when she says she doesn’t know if reports that her net worth tops $60 million are true.“I have no idea if there’s $4 in my pocket or $400,” she said. “I never ask about it. That’s why I have bankers. I don’t want to know anything at all about what I’ve got or what I don’t. It’s never motivated me. It never will.”Her marriage has matured, too. Mr. Cusimano, 50, has been her business partner from nearly the start, and remains her closest adviser. Theirs has always been a fiery relationship, often dissected in the tabloids. But the two have settled into a comfortable, solid, middle-aged partnership filled with accommodation, admiration and frequent kisses.He makes her romantic playlists, writes cocktail recipes for her books and does the grilling and the dishes. She is a faithful fan of his music, buys him fancy motorcycles and other toys, and cooks him dinner.“We’re the same,” Ms. Ray said. “We’re loud. We don’t have to have dinner at a set time. And he knows he can’t boss me around over how much money I give away.”Ms. Ray, who doesn’t sleep much and relaxes with “Columbo” reruns, has two essential operating principles. First, she won’t put her name on anything she wouldn’t want to use at home or hasn’t sketched out in one of the notebooks that never leave her side.“I even have baby notebooks I put in those stupid handbags when you have to go do the red carpet, because I hate being anywhere where I can’t write anything down,” she said.Second, she works hard and trusts her instincts. “My gut is what got us here,” she said. “I am not going to change what I do or make my decisions any differently.”Despite protests from advisers, her gut led her into the pet food business in 2008. Owners of a small, family-owned Pennsylvania company noticed how much attention animals received in her magazine, and approached her. Ms. Ray agreed to let them use her name, as long as the food was inspired by her recipes and her piece of the licensing agreement went to her foundation for animals.“People were like, you can’t put your head on dog food. That’s insane,” she said. “I was like, ‘Who cares? It’s not like I have a stellar reputation as one of the world’s great chefs.’”Other ideas are in various stages of execution. She is writing a new book that is neither a memoir nor a cookbook, but has elements of both. She is developing a gardening line and designing handbags, both expensive ones with hand-dyed Italian leather and more affordable vegan models aimed at millennials.Still, Ms. Ray made sure her is name is hidden inside the pieces. “That way, even if you hate me you can still buy it,” she said.She laughs about it now, but it wasn’t always that way. “Believe me, I cried my eyes out plenty,” she said. “But you can’t battle mean-spiritedness by answering it with behavior that is less than what you want for yourself.”She is less confident about her push into the music world. For 11 years, she has staged shows during the South by Southwest Music Festival, in Austin. “Music is scarier than furniture because I love it so much,” she said. “If every time I put on a concert and people were whispering things about me, it’d be like an endless prom.”By 8 a.m. on St. Patrick’s Day, the line wrapped around several city blocks. People close to Ms. Ray’s age, in green leprechaun hats, said they had learned to cook from her. Men in their early 30s recalled her as their first TV crush. College students playing cards on the sidewalk barely knew she had something to do with cooking, but liked her work as a music promoter.Ms. Ray’s superpower has always been her ability to read what Middle America wants and know just when to deliver it, Ms. Broyles said. “I would not call sous vide mainstream until she does it,” she said.As the country struggles with deep cultural and political divisions, the skill could be the very thing that helps Ms. Ray recapture a certain currency.“She is anti-aspirational, which actually seems refreshing,” Ms. Druckman said. “If fast casual is a thing, Rachael is fast casual.”Ms. Ray has not embraced a digital life, at least not personally. Although she is a prolific texter, it wasn’t long ago that she put down her flip phone. Her brand has nearly 11 million followers spread across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, but she doesn’t spend a lot of time on those platforms.“I don’t take in negative information online,” she said. “I just don’t feel it’s a constructive use of my time, and I have too much work to do.”Although Ms. Ray is a daily reader of The Times, watches MSNBC and listens to Howard Stern, she tries to separate her show from politics. It doesn’t always work.That doesn’t mean she is going to stop advertising on Fox. Late into an evening that she punctuated with several glasses of red wine might not be the best time to talk politics with Ms. Ray, but on this point she was crystal clear: She will continue to advertise her brands and schedule guests without regard to anyone’s political beliefs.“On the television show, everyone has to be welcome,” she said. “It’s our safe space.”Tommy Crudup, a CBS talent executive who books guests for her show and spends weekends at her house in the Adirondacks, explained it this way: “Rachael is happiest when everyone around her is happy, and she made them that way.”But her sunny, everyone-in-the-pool approach could also undercut her.“Well, you’re at the wrong show,” Ms. Williams said. “Rachael Ray is downstairs.”Ms. Ray said that was just Wendy being Wendy, but the comment made it clear that Rachael Ray is an avatar for a certain slice of America that doesn’t know how to throw shade.She did offer a little advice on how to navigate sexual harassment, based on her years of restaurant work, two muggings, a terrifying incident with a stalker and some difficult childhood experiences: Punch back, at least verbally.“Women should see they need to speak out in the moment,” she said. “When something happens, say it out loud and address it immediately.”With that, Ms. Ray headed to bed. The next morning, she squealed when she saw a photograph of her next to Michelle Obama on “CBS Sunday Morning.” It reminded her of their work together on childhood nutrition and how much ground she feels has been lost.But she is going to keep moving. Even if her place in popular culture slips away, she’ll still find a way to make hay, she said. She always has.“I’m good,” she said, slicing a speck, cabbage and egg pie she had pulled out of the pizza oven for breakfast. “If I die tomorrow, I’m good.”Mr. Cusimano was loading the dishwasher. “Honey,” he said, “please don’t die tomorrow.”Susan Beachy contributed research.cookingcookingcookingAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS