How Watson and Weather ARE Helping Crops Grow StrongerThe boxes are the homes of bees, the extraordinary winged creatures responsible for the flowers’ bright yellow blooms each summer. Their owner is Richard Adee, a beekeeper since 1957. A lot has changed since he began his career producing honey. For one, his family’s income now depends mostly on pollination services that his some 80,000 hives of bees provide across the country. The shift has caused new challenges, large and small, but one has remained a constant since the very beginning: the weather.“You just kind of have to go by what weather comes your way,” says Adee, 87, who is co-owner of the largest beekeeping operation in the world, Adee Honey Farms, headquartered in Bruce, S.D. “Most of the time you just have to wait it out.”Honeybees work best at specific temperatures based on the individual crops they’re pollinating and foraging, be it clover, almonds or sunflowers. If it’s too hot, many of the bees will have to stay behind, flapping their wings to keep the hive cool. If it’s raining or too cold, the bees won’t work at all. As a result, Adee is often at the mercy of the weather, a position all too familiar for many businesses. It’s estimated that weather has a $500 billion annual impact on the economy.Thankfully, today Adee has better options. There is more precise weather data available to meteorologists, scientists and farmers than ever before. Thanks to cognitive technology that allows machines to learn from data sets as varied as a barometric reading to a satellite photograph, we now have the tools to synthesize, analyze and act on that information to make better decisions. At the forefront of this technology is IBM Watson, and following the acquisition of The Weather Company (which delivers up to 26 billion forecasts every day for 2.2 billion locations around the world), we’ve entered a new era of weather forecasting, one that is changing the face of business and our daily lives.A New Era In Weather Forecastingn a recent day, the forecast called for a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms in the morning, with a high of 86 and a low of 56. While simple enough, forecasts like this have decades of history behind them. They’re the result of a range of models developed by meteorologists to make a best guess based on a variety of conditions: atmospheric pressure, temperature, winds and more.A single commercial colony of bees has up to 50,000 bees.Bees in a colony have an array of jobs: housekeeper, drone, builder, nurse, forager, even “air conditioner.”“Historically, we stopped once we provided a basic forecast. We left it up to the individual to kind of decide what they did with the information,” says Brandon Hertell, Offering Manager at IBM Analytics and AMS Certified Consulting Meteorologis. “Today, the meteorology business is focusing more on decision support. We’re interested in — and analytics and cognitive technology starts to work into this — what you’re going to do with that information now.”Richard Adee with his familyRichard Adee with his familyThis is the difference between predictive forecasting — or a simple best guess as to what the weather will be like — and prescriptive forecasting: the ability to expand on that forecast and provide concrete information on how best to react to it.Much of Adee’s business is in pollinating industrial crops such as almonds, soy and apples around the country. Instead of letting Adee know that it might rain in the location of his almond clients in California in two weeks, a prescriptive forecast might provide information on which route will have favorable weather or even how many bees to transport to a specific location based on climate.A single commercial colony of bees has up to 50,000 bees.Bees in a colony have an array of jobs: housekeeper, drone, builder, nurse, forager, even “air conditioner.”Bees can travel up to two miles to forage.Crops that require bee pollination have increased 300 percent over the last 50 years.Where Data Comes Fromo achieve this kind of detail, a more varied, complex and expansive collection of data is required compared to what meteorologists have traditionally relied on. Experts make the distinction between structured data that we typically find in a numerical spreadsheet or databases and unstructured data, which tends to be less digestible and more difficult to integrate and compare to other forms of data. In fact, 80 percent of all data today is considered unstructured (social media posts, news articles and research reports, for example).“Only about 20 percent of the world’s data is available on the internet,” says David Kenny, General Manager at IBM Watson. “The rest isn’t on the internet because it doesn’t naturally digitize.”Bees can travel up to two miles to forage.Crops that require bee pollination have increased 300 percent over the last 50 years.To examine structured and unstructured data at the same time means collecting and managing data from thousands of weather stations, cell phones, satellite imagery, historical databases, newspapers, tweets, even the frequency of windshield wipers on Wi-Fi enabled cars — the list goes on. It’s more than any one person or even a team of meteorologists could fathom.“I can’t possibly comprehend every possible scenario or research every potential storm and outcome that happened in history based on what I know today on a weather forecast,” says Hertell. “That’s what Watson helps us do.”In a lot of ways, Watson augments the analytical abilities humans already possess. It can analyze things beyond just numbers, looking at unstructured data to map out the full picture, and in doing so can help us make better decisions based on the weather.“Watson enables us to quickly uncover a lot more data relationships and patterns in a systematic way,” says Peter Neilley, IBM Distinguished Engineer and SVP Global Forecasting Sciences for The Weather Company. “What has changed is the mass of that computing and the scale which we can now apply to the problem. It’s only the tip of the iceberg so far. Watson will help us get from addressing billions of dollars of economic impact to trillions of dollars of economic impact. That’s what’s new and cool.”Today, beekeepers like the Adees rely on traditional weather forecasting. Data from weather stations is plugged into a number of models that meteorologists can adjust based on specific circumstances.The Adees and farmers alike will use this information to roughly predict where and when to put their bees to match peak bloom or what kind of behavior the bees will demonstrate.In the near future, The Weather Company’s existing array of data sources will be complemented by unstructured data, providing a bigger picture of the weather.With the help of human experts, Watson will be trained in how to analyze and synthesize this vast and varied array of data to provide actionable advice on how to make better decisions.With this information, beekeepers can better predict when their bees will be needed and how to get them to their destination as safely as possible. Farmers may also discover new insights about planting crops that are beneficial for bees.Of Bees and Sunflower Seedsut how can all this technology help the growth of a sunflower seed? Well, it depends where you look. For Richard’s son, Bret Adee, who is in charge of the pollination arm of the business, more accurate weather forecasting could lead to better decisions about where to put their bees and when. Cognitive technologies can help Adee more accurately predict when bloom conditions will be at their peak, which means his bees could produce more honey and lead farmers to have a higher yield of crops.Over the last 10 years, honey bee populations have decreased by up to 40 percent.Insecticides, lack of crop diversity, and climate change are all factors in the decline of the honey bee population.“The weather has such an influence on the wildflowers bees need, and a lot of times we miss the highest potential market because we misjudged the weather patterns,” he says. If he could better forecast these patterns, thousands of dollars could be saved in fuel and labor, among other expenses.Adee Honey Farms owns around 80,000 hives like those pictured hereAdee Honey Farms owns around 80,000 hives like those pictured hereThe logistics of getting the bees there could also be improved with Watson. To ship some 460 truckloads each year, Bret Adee chooses routes that are the least stressful for the bees. That means consistent temperatures of between 20 and 60 degrees, and as few stops as possible. Using cognitive technologies, Bret Adee and his team could identify the best routes, road conditions and temperatures to transport the bees, as well as take seasonal impacts like floods and droughts into account.Pollination is just one of many factors contributing to the delicate ecosystem allowing plants like sunflowers to grow. Here’s how cognitive technologies is making a difference in other areas affecting agriculture and business:Honeybee populations have decreased by up to 40 percent annually since 2006.Insecticides and habitat reduction are among factors causing the decline of honeybees.waterCalifornia’s almond crops are some of the most heavily reliant on pollination services. But almonds will not grow without water, no matter how many bees are supplied. Knowing if there’s going to be a drought can help farmers like Adee anticipate their needs.In fact, some companies are already using cognitive technologies to help with water efficiency. OmniEarth, a company founded in 2014 that finds business solutions through the use of satellite and aerial imagery, delivers solar panel data that provides risk and energy efficiency updates. With the use of Landsat's near-infrared and other imaging bands with MODIS data, OmniEarth helps aid in crop yield efficiency. Watson Visual Recognition technology assists OmniEarth in identifying water usage patterns and detects where and when inefficiencies occur. This could mean more water where it’s needed most, like almond crops, for example. “We were able to very rapidly improve our water budget and efficiency analyses because of the scale of Watson and the speed with which it learned and applied various classifiers to the data we fed it,” says Jonathan Fentzke, OmniEarth’s chief strategy officer and cofounder.sunIBM is examining the impact of weather across industries. While the farms of America’s plains are seldom wanting for sunshine, cloud cover can make or break the solar energy industry. Last year, IBM Research, in collaboration with the University of Michigan, looked to maximize the power of the sun itself for the Bridgestone World Solar Challenge, a 1,800-mile solar-car race across Australia’s Outback. Using machine learning and modeling of complex weather systems, the team was able to predict cloud cover more accurately, allowing it to make decisions about when to slow down or speed up to give its car as much sunlight as possible.IBM helped its team by capturing information about the type, size, speed and direction of the clouds and combine it with weather-modeling data and information about the location and speed of the racer, battery charge levels and other factors.airAnother factor that affects the environment including plants and flowers (a primary food source for bees) is pollution. In fact, air pollution can pose such a significant risk to the health of plants and people alike that in preparation for the Beijing Olympics in 2008, the Chinese government took steps to reduce pollution by shutting down factories, among other strategies.Out of those efforts, IBM developed a project called Green Horizons. It uses on-the-ground sensors and social media posts as data sources and The Weather Company technology to identify a more accurate prediction of when pollution is at its worst. Now, strategies tailored for specific scenarios are being developed as a result.soilWhether for sunflowers, almonds or grapes, fertile, hydrated soil is vital for plant growth and successful crop yield. That’s why the world’s largest family-owned winery, E. & J. Gallo Winery in Modesto, California, is using IBM technology to ensure it disperses water and fertilizer to its vines as efficiently as possible. Using satellite imagery, Gallo’s experts noticed that certain sections of its 20,000-acre vineyard varied widely when it came to the health of the vines. The problem stemmed from how the company irrigated the plants, tailoring its watering and irrigation efforts to large 10-by-10-acre areas. After pairing IBM technology with ground sensors, Gallo was able to better analyze the soil of individual plants and adjust conditions on a smaller scale. With the new analytically based irrigation system, the winery reduced water consumption by a fifth while at the same time increasing crop yield by up to 20 percent.“The solution provides a precise and environmentally conscious method of increasing our grape yield and fruit quality while conserving water,” says Luis Sanchez, Principal Research Scientist at E. & J. Gallo Winery.waterCalifornia’s almond crops are some of the most heavily reliant on pollination services. But almonds will not grow without water, no matter how many bees are supplied. Knowing if there’s going to be a drought can help farmers like Adee anticipate their needs.In fact, some companies are already using cognitive technologies to help with water efficiency. OmniEarth, a company founded in 2014 that finds business solutions through the use of satellite and aerial imagery, delivers solar panel data that provides risk and energy efficiency updates. With the use of Landsat's near-infrared and other imaging bands with MODIS data, OmniEarth helps aid in crop yield efficiency. Watson Visual Recognition technology assists OmniEarth in identifying water usage patterns and detects where and when inefficiencies occur. This could mean more water where it’s needed most, like almond crops, for example. “We were able to very rapidly improve our water budget and efficiency analyses because of the scale of Watson and the speed with which it learned and applied various classifiers to the data we fed it,” says Jonathan Fentzke, OmniEarth’s chief strategy officer and cofounder.sunIBM is examining the impact of weather across industries. While the farms of America’s plains are seldom wanting for sunshine, cloud cover can make or break the solar energy industry. Last year, IBM Research, in collaboration with the University of Michigan, looked to maximize the power of the sun itself for the Bridgestone World Solar Challenge, a 1,800-mile solar-car race across Australia’s Outback. Using machine learning and modeling of complex weather systems, the team was able to predict cloud cover more accurately, allowing it to make decisions about when to slow down or speed up to give its car as much sunlight as possible.IBM helped its team by capturing information about the type, size, speed and direction of the clouds and combine it with weather-modeling data and information about the location and speed of the racer, battery charge levels and other factors.airAnother factor that affects the environment including plants and flowers (a primary food source for bees) is pollution. In fact, air pollution can pose such a significant risk to the health of plants and people alike that in preparation for the Beijing Olympics in 2008, the Chinese government took steps to reduce pollution by shutting down factories, among other strategies.Out of those efforts, IBM developed a project called Green Horizons. It uses on-the-ground sensors and social media posts as data sources and The Weather Company technology to identify a more accurate prediction of when pollution is at its worst. Now, strategies tailored for specific scenarios are being developed as a result.soilWhether for sunflowers, almonds or grapes, fertile, hydrated soil is vital for plant growth and successful crop yield. That’s why the world’s largest family-owned winery, E. & J. Gallo Winery in Modesto, California, is using IBM technology to ensure it disperses water and fertilizer to its vines as efficiently as possible. Using satellite imagery, Gallo’s experts noticed that certain sections of its 20,000-acre vineyard varied widely when it came to the health of the vines. The problem stemmed from how the company irrigated the plants, tailoring its watering and irrigation efforts to large 10-by-10-acre areas. After pairing IBM technology with ground sensors, Gallo was able to better analyze the soil of individual plants and adjust conditions on a smaller scale. With the new analytically based irrigation system, the winery reduced water consumption by a fifth while at the same time increasing crop yield by up to 20 percent.“The solution provides a precise and environmentally conscious method of increasing our grape yield and fruit quality while conserving water,” says Luis Sanchez, Principal Research Scientist at E. & J. Gallo Winery.“If we start investing in analytics to start working on these combinations of crops from a data standpoint, it’s going to have a tremendous impact,” he says, agreeing that cognitive technologies could play a major factor. “We have all the answers for a brighter future if we work together.”Those answers could very well come from the union of increased weather data, more robust analytics and Watson’s cognitive technologies working directly with farmers, beekeepers and scientists. The conclusions they draw together promise to create lasting change for a better world for businesses and individuals alike.The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.Go to Home Page »