Continuing our series on IT Transformation, author David Rogers (pictured) offers his insights on the impact of the digital revolution on business and how IT departments must transform to keep up. He is on the faculty of the Columbia University Business School and the author of four books, including "The Digital Transformation Playbook: Rethink Your Business for the Digital Age" (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2016).We are clearly in the middle of a long-term technology revolution impacting business, from the birth of the Web and social media, to the mobile computing revolution, A.I. and beyond. Why this is disruptive is each technology is catalyzing the others. The smartphone catalyzed the app revolution, which transformed consumer behaviors and, therefore, business. Each of these digital technologies is enabling new business models and driving what I call "asymmetric competition."Asymmetric competition is much less about market share, and much more about leverage between firms, and how they interact and work together. So Toyota is not just thinking about how it sells versus other car manufacturers, like Honda, but how it competes for influence and profitability in an ecosystem of ride-sharing services like Uber, data owners like HERE and autonomous software companies like Google.Exactly. And we see that shift in a lot of new business models that are being enabled by technology. They are shifting away from selling a product, to selling a service — to selling an outcome. And if you already grew your business and built it under a completely different pre-digital environment, it's actually hard to step back and recognize everything that has changed for your industry.To me, digital transformation is not about a new start-up; it’s about how do you change a legacy organization. They have the financial resources. They have talented employees. They have customers, or they wouldn’t have gotten where they are today. The hard part for a legacy business is changing course, to find a new path to growth in the digital economy.That really calls for a different role for IT. IT needs to expand from simply being able to support the current core business model, to enabling a different managerial process that has to run in parallel — a process that’s based on experimentation, discovery of new products, services, market needs and new business models. And then, as they are discovered, being able to rapidly scale them up.IT has to master methods for agile development. It can’t be the old model of an interview process and you get the specs from business, and maybe someone’s talked to a customer at that point, and then it’s handed off to the IT team and they run with it. Teams have to be designed differently, cross-functionally.You need to figure out what’s the right combination for your own business. For example, when and where and how do you use cloud computing — public or private? Hybrid mixes? Certainly things like flash arrays or in-memory computing are critical to improving the speed of processing. Software-defined architecture is another piece that allows flexible scaling of new applications. This is going to be critical to the speed at which companies can not only experiment and discover business opportunities, but also very rapidly deploy them at scale.I think technology partners can play a critical role for any legacy business as it reinvents its IT function to support digital transformation. Part of that involves actually choosing and deploying the right technologies. But it’s also important to be able to help companies think differently about the role of IT. What does it mean for IT to not simply be an enabler of your traditional business, but to be a partner in driving new value creation?Illustrations by Israel VargasThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.Go to Home Page »