AdvertisementFor President Trump, 15 is the magic number.That’s the percentage at which he wants to cap the corporate tax rate, a steep cut from the current top rate of 35 percent and much lower than the ordinary income rates paid by many partnerships and small-business entities.There’s no doubt that a cut to 15 percent would be big, bold and historic. It might even be the biggest cut ever in corporate tax rates, to use another superlative Mr. Trump is fond of invoking.It might do wonders for economic growth, level the competitive playing field, and encourage United States corporations to keep their headquarters in this country and invest trillions in cash currently stashed in offshore accounts.AdvertisementA 15 percent rate would take the United States from having the highest corporate tax rate among industrialized nations to having one of the lowest. Britain is moving to 17 percent, Canada’s federal rate has already gotten to 15 percent, and Ireland’s is at 12.5 percent.AdvertisementAfter last week’s collapse of health care legislation, many believe Republicans can’t afford to fail again, especially on what is widely considered their signature issue: taxes. As Scott A. Hodge, president of the conservative-leaning Tax Foundation, told me this week: “If the Republicans fail with tax reform, it would be truly catastrophic. It’s really all or nothing at this point.”There’s only one major stumbling block to a 15 percent rate, and the conventional wisdom is that it’s an intractable one: how to pay for it.According to estimates by the Tax Foundation, a cut in the corporate rate to 15 percent would add $2.2 trillion to the deficit over 10 years on a “static” basis, which assumes no additional economic growth. After factoring in growth and higher resulting tax receipts, known as “dynamic” scoring, the deficit would grow by $1 trillion, according to the foundation.And if rates also go to 15 percent for pass-through entities — businesses that pay taxes at individual rates, like limited-liability corporations and partnerships — that adds another $1.5 trillion on a static basis, and $1.3 trillion on a dynamic basis, the foundation estimates. (A cut in pass-through rates has much less impact under dynamic scoring, because individuals and small businesses spend far less on capital projects and thus do less to stimulate the economy.)Paying for corporate tax cuts of that magnitude “is a tremendous challenge if you don’t want to blow a hole in the deficit,” Mr. Hodge said. “Anyone writing tax legislation will find that the options are very limited.”How big is the challenge? In their tax blueprint, House Republicans could only get the corporate rate to 20 percent. The 2014 proposal from Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who was then the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, struggled to reach 25 percent. And when President Barack Obama nearly reached a “grand bargain” on tax reform with Republicans in 2013, he could only get to 28 percent, with 25 percent for some manufacturers.“The math is really hard,” said Ray Beeman, a tax expert at Ernst & Young and a former adviser to Mr. Camp. “There’s really no big source of revenue that won’t rile people up.”And yet 15 percent just might be possible.For starters, eliminating the deductions and loopholes in the corporate tax code would go a long way toward paying for a significant corporate rate cut. There are so many of these that few companies actually pay the 35 percent statutory rate.Advertisement“Corporations benefit from all kinds of loopholes, especially the one allowing earnings to accumulate offshore without being taxed,” said Steven M. Rosenthal, a tax expert and senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that in 2016 the corporate income tax raised $300 billion in revenue, while what it called “targeted subsidies” cost about $270 billion. In other words, Congress could eliminate the subsidies and cut the corporate rate nearly in half without any significant loss in revenue.Another possibility would be to shift at least some of the tax burden from corporations to shareholders, by raising tax rates on capital gains and dividend income. Many economists favor that approach, because it reduces the double-taxation problem embedded in the current system. (Corporations pay taxes on profits, and then, when these are distributed, shareholders pay.) The added tax burden would fall primarily on affluent taxpayers since they tend to own stocks, helping to rebut the argument that slashing the corporate rate would be a tax cut for the wealthy.While it’s difficult to estimate how much additional tax revenue would be generated if dividends and capital gains were taxed at the same rate as ordinary income, it would surely be substantial, another big step toward a 15 percent corporate rate.Taxing ordinary income, capital gains and dividends at the same rate would also greatly simplify the tax code. The notion does, however, run up against Republican orthodoxy that low capital-gains rates stimulate growth.Environmentalists and many economists would love to see a carbon tax, which would presumably be repellent to an administration that is skeptical of climate change and wants to promote the coal industry.AdvertisementThe point, however, is that if Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress are serious about a 15 percent rate without vastly increasing the deficit, there are many ways to get there.Then there’s the 15 percent pass-through rate. While taxing small businesses and partnerships at the same rate as corporations has a superficial appeal, there’s nothing that says they have to be the same. As the Tax Foundation maintains, cutting rates on these businesses has relatively little impact on growth. The House Republican blueprint was comfortable with a rate of 25 percent for small businesses and pass-through taxpayers, still a significant reduction from current ordinary income rates. And the 1986 reform act didn’t require that pass-through entities pay the same rate as corporations.“There’s nothing magic about 15 percent,” Mr. Rosenthal said.The closer the pass-through rate is to ordinary income rates, the lower the incentive for lawyers, accountants, doctors and other service professionals to reorganize themselves into pass-through entities to avoid paying the higher rates. How to distinguish individual professionals from actual businesses has long vexed legislators trying to rewrite the tax code. “A big issue has always been, how do you prevent a pass-through owner who is really a wage earner or service provider from escaping the higher ordinary income tax rate?” Mr. Beeman said.Everyone I spoke to mentioned that lowering corporate tax rates to anything close to 15 percent requires political courage and leadership to overcome the powerful special interests that benefit from existing loopholes — starting with real estate. Whether Mr. Trump can set aside personal interests and rise to the challenge remains to be seen.Many tax experts hope he will.“What’s important is not just getting a home run under his belt,” Mr. Hodge said. “The Republicans have to get tax reform right. They have to make sure it delivers the kind of growth that boosts productivity and real wages and living standards. If they do get it right, it can dramatically improve the lives of the people who feel most aggrieved about globalization and the state of the economy — the same people who voted for Trump.”The Common Sense column on Friday, about hurdles that President Trump faces in reducing corporate tax rates, misstated an estimate by the Tax Policy Center for the 10-year federal revenue increase from eliminating the interest deduction. The projection is $700 billion, not $700 million.Second in a series of Common Sense columns about the shape a responsible tax reform plan might take.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorJerusalem — “The only alternative to the Iran nuclear deal is war.” That is what the Obama administration and proponents of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran claimed in 2015. Nobody in the Middle East believed that the United States would ever strike Iran, but enough Americans did that the deal went through.President Trump has long opposed the deal, calling it one of the “worst and most one-sided transactions” ever. On Oct. 15, the president faces a deadline to recertify or decertify the agreement; various reports say he will opt for the latter. The deal’s defenders, horrified by this prospect, are once again warning of catastrophe. “Hard to see how abandoning” the Iran deal “doesn’t lead to war,” tweeted Samantha Power, a former ambassador to the United Nations.Such scare tactics were dishonest enough in 2015. Today, in view of the agreement’s ruinous consequences, they are morally indefensible.The alternative was never war, but a better deal. Rather than lifting sanctions on Iran, allowing it to retain its nuclear infrastructure and develop more advanced centrifuges, a better deal could have ramped up pressure on the Islamic Republic. This would have stripped Iran of capacities like uranium enrichment, which is unnecessary for a civilian energy program, and linked any deal to changes in Iran’s support for terrorism, its regional aggression and its gross violation of human rights at home.A better deal also would not have removed restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program in 2025. That “sunset clause” is overlooked by the agreement’s proponents, who stress that Iran has so far complied with the deal. But why wouldn’t Iran comply right now? In a mere eight years it can reactivate its nuclear plants and rapidly enrich enough uranium for dozens of nuclear bombs. Instead of blocking Iran’s path to nuclear weapons, the agreement paves it.In 2015, the agreement’s promoters insisted that the United States could no longer maintain an international front against Iran and that sanctions, set up to last indefinitely, would soon unravel. Now they predict that the international community will not follow America’s lead in withdrawing from the deal and reimposing sanctions. Worse, they warn, Iran might use the opportunity to evict United Nations inspectors and ramp up its nuclear program.All of these assumptions are false.Had American sanctions on Iran remained in place in 2015, companies would have had to choose between doing business with the United States, the world’s top-ranked economy by gross domestic product, and Iran, ranked 27th. That same stark choice will confront businesses if sanctions are reinstated.Similarly, the contention that Iran will rush to make nuclear weapons in the absence of an agreement is unfounded. Iran could have made that rush well before 2015 but it did not. The reason was the 2012 speech by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the United Nations General Assembly and the implicit military threat that backed it up.The world, he declared, must not allow Iran to amass enough highly enriched uranium to produce a nuclear bomb. “Red lines don’t lead to war,” he said. “Red lines prevent war.” That red line will remain indelible whether the deal is strengthened or canceled. What was true in 2015 holds equally today: The more credible the military option, the lesser the chance it will need to be used.The agreement’s apologists say that altering or negating the agreement will irreparably harm America’s prestige. Yet it is difficult to see how America’s status is served by a refusal to stand up to Iran’s complicity in the massacre of half a million Syrians and its efforts to annihilate American allies.Israel’s position on the Iran deal was and remains clear. “Fix it or nix it,” Prime Minister Netanyahu recently told the United Nations. If canceled, the deal must be replaced by crippling sanctions that force Iran to dismantle its nuclear weapons capacity. Fixing the deal would include conducting stricter inspections of suspect Iran nuclear sites, imposing harsher penalties for Iranian violations and, above all, eliminating the “sunset clause.”Either way, revisiting the agreement will send an unequivocal message to the world. It will say that Iran’s state-funded terrorism and its attempts to establish a Shiite empire will not be tolerated. The weakness of the Iran deal invites wars, it will say, while displays of strength prevent them. It will say that the United States is truly unwilling to accept a nuclear Iran — not now, not in a decade, not ever.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAdvertisement“They’ll be studying this in business schools for years,” said Andrew Winston, a corporate strategy consultant and author of “The Big Pivot” and a recent article in Harvard Business Review about the United incident.AdvertisementHaving recently completed a round trip from Newark to San Francisco on United, I wasn’t all that surprised that United appeared to be weathering the storm. When I booked my ticket, United offered the most convenient flight options at the cheapest fares, albeit just $12 or so less than American. So I booked on United, even though the Dao incident was fresh in my mind.My experience bears out an adage about airlines: People almost always opt for convenience and price, even while complaining loudly about crowded planes and a dearth of amenities. And now that there are just four major carriers in the United States, thanks to years of industry consolidation, many passengers don’t have all that much choice.“The barriers to customer movement are pretty high,” Mr. Winston said. “You’d think that consumer perceptions matter a lot, but given that the major carriers practically have a monopoly on many routes and airports, it’s not that easy to switch.”That said, once on board, I found the experience surprisingly pleasant. The flight took off on time and landed early. The snack I wanted was still available even though I was seated toward the back. My video screen malfunctioned, depriving me of an opportunity to watch the movie “Hidden Figures.” But the flight attendant was so empathetic, and tried repeatedly to fix the problem (rebooting the aircraft’s entire entertainment system several times) that I ended up reassuring her that I was happy to read a book. She gave me a voucher worth 5,000 frequent-flier miles or a $100 credit on a future flight, which seemed pretty generous for a minor incident.The return trip was even better. The plane was a mint condition Boeing 777-300ER, with an intriguing business-class layout I admired while on my way to coach. Back there, the seats were leather and unusually comfortable (even for someone as tall as I am.) The video equipment worked. I was surprised when a flight attendant offered me a complimentary meal. I told her it must be a mistake since I was in an ordinary coach seat.A United spokeswoman told me the airline had begun serving complimentary meals and drinks on many transcontinental flights beginning July 1, but only for Economy Plus passengers. She speculated that there may have been some extra meals on my flight, or I may have been upgraded to an Economy Plus seat without my realizing it. And she said the plane was probably one of the airline’s 11 new 777-300ERs, which are being broken in on transcontinental routes before moving to international ones.That flight also took off on time and landed early. (United said it had the best on-time arrival and departure performance of any carrier in the second quarter.)AdvertisementMaybe this simply reflects diminished expectations, but after the remarkably stress-free flight, I wondered if it might be a good idea to fly an airline soon after an embarrassing episode like the Dao incident on the theory that everyone will be on their best behavior.According to United, my experience wasn’t an anomaly, since the airline has put in a host of recent, post-Dao changes aimed at customer satisfaction. “To say we learned some lessons would be putting it mildly,” said Megan McCarthy, the United spokeswoman.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Besides the free meals and drinks in Economy Plus, United is now offering up to $10,000 in compensation for passengers who give up their seats on overbooked flights. These issues will be resolved before boarding so no one gets dragged off after taking an assigned seat. (United said “involuntary denied boardings” had dropped 88 percent in June from a year earlier.) When the airline loses luggage, customers will no longer have to provide receipts to prove the value of what was in it. The airline will provide up to $1,500 in compensation, no questions asked.United has also set up a team based in Chicago to offer creative solutions to customer problems. Ms. McCarthy cited an example of providing a flight to a nearby airport and ground transportation to their destination if someone has been denied boarding on an overbooked flight.“That was the right thing to do,” said Steve Barrett, editor of PRWeek magazine. “They should have done it immediately. United made it a much bigger story than it ever would have been.”When I spoke to Mr. Barrett this week, he acknowledged that no boycott had materialized and United’s bookings were holding up, helped in part by a series of incidents at rival airlines suggesting that United wasn’t any worse.AdvertisementStill, United “has suffered considerable reputational damage,” Mr. Barrett said. “No one is going to forget that video anytime soon.”“That’s great and I hope it’s true,” Mr. Winston said. The airlines “have spent the last 30 to 40 years building a culture that’s about maximizing profits. Employees and customers were just a cog in that strategic wheel. Maybe it takes an incident like this to make them realize they can be about something more than moving cattle in the cheapest possible way.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byArjay Miller, who as Ford Motor Company president modernized the company’s management and marketed the original Mustangs, and who then switched to academia and elevated Stanford to the top ranks of America’s graduate business schools, died on Friday at his home in Woodside, Calif. He was 101.The cause was a stroke, his son, Kenneth, said.Raised as a Nebraska farm boy, Mr. Miller was one of the so-called whiz kids who persuaded Ford to hire them in the late 1940s from Harvard, where they had perfected statistical management techniques for the Army Air Forces.Originally called the “quiz kids” because they peppered their Ford colleagues with probing questions, the team included Robert S. McNamara, who would also become a Ford president and later secretary of defense in the administrations of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.During Mr. Miller’s presidency, Ford reported record sales and earnings, introduced the Mustang and other slick-back models and revolutionized its stodgy management and financial practices.When Congress demanded that Detroit do more to prevent accidents, Ford responded proactively by acknowledging that the industry had been slow to embrace auto safety and pledging to support whatever federal researchers recommended.As the dean of the Graduate School of Business at Stanford, in Palo Alto, Calif., for a decade, Mr. Miller expanded the curriculum to include public policy, social issues and ethics; hired the first women onto the faculty; recruited more minority students; increased the endowment; and upgraded the school into a worthy challenger to the business schools of Harvard and the University of Chicago.Mr. Miller was no ivory-tower dreamer or Detroit desk jockey, though.After riots devastated the slums of Detroit and other cities in the summer of 1967, he was named by President Johnson to a board that helped found the Urban Institute to address the underlying causes of the unrest. He also founded the Economic Development Corporation of Greater Detroit to support black-owned and black-operated businesses.Mr. Miller was the first major business executive to advocate a negative income tax to alleviate poverty — that is, giving a family with no income a basic grant and reducing but not eliminating it as the family gained income from other sources.His political philosophy combined social conscience with self-interest.“All we need to stay in business and grow,” he once said, “is to have more people and higher incomes.”He was credited with having an encyclopedic arsenal of facts and figures and an insatiable curiosity, which he had evidenced since childhood, when he completely dismantled a vintage Model T that he bought for $10 to understand how it worked.“The rescue of Ford from a morass of internecine chicanery and chaos cannot be laid at a single person’s feet,” Hemmings Classic Car magazine said in 2007, “but Miller unquestionably did a great deal of the heavy lifting to save the company.“Unlike most heroes of the car business, he was not an engineer, stylist or designated product planner,” the magazine continued. “Miller was, instead, a person who could reconcile the realities of interpreting reams of data and inspiring others to apply it logically. His talent allowed him, in turn, to manage an unprecedented war, to help remake a troubled manufacturing giant, and to realize his ultimate legacy by grooming a new generation of top executives.”Arjay Ray Miller was born on March 4, 1916, in Shelby, Neb., a village west of Omaha. The youngest of eight children, he was named for the first initials of his father, Rawley John Miller, a farmer. His mother was the former Mary Schade.“I always thought it was some help coming from a rural situation,” Mr. Miller told The New York Times in 1966. “You aren’t so perplexed about the world: Milk came from a cow, not from the grocery store. Eggs came from a chicken.”After the family moved west, he earned a bachelor of science degree in finance and banking from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1937. As a teaching fellow and graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, he completed all the requirements for a doctorate except for his dissertation, then worked as an economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.Once the United States entered World War II, he tried to enlist in the military but was initially rejected because of poor eyesight. He was later drafted into the Army Air Forces, where he taught prospective pilots on a flight simulator and then was enrolled in a statistical regime for officers at Harvard.When the war ended and he was discharged as a captain, Mr. Miller and the other nine members of his Harvard statistics group pitched themselves as a package deal to 100 companies. Only one, the Alleghany Corporation, responded.Before they could be interviewed there, Mr. Miller saw a cover article in Life magazine about Henry Ford II’s search for executive talent to revive the company, which had been losing money for 15 consecutive years, and retool it to a civilian economy.After they sent a telegram to Ford requesting a meeting about “a matter of management importance,” the company hired all 10.Mr. Miller started in the finance department’s analysis unit. Focusing on marketing and engineering, he was promoted to a vice presidency in 1957 and was named Ford’s seventh president in 1963.“We’re lucky in the auto business,” he told The Boston Globe in 1966. “So many businesses have to work hard to create a demand. But for us, the minute a kid hits 16 he automatically wants a car.”Yet he resented the notion that he was just an astute bean counter.“We weren’t a bunch of accountants,” he told Automotive News in 2003. “We knew the importance of people.”Mr. Miller married Frances Fearing, an economist, in 1940; she died in 2010. They lived in Ann Arbor, Mich., a university town, rather than in Grosse Pointe or Bloomfield Hills, which were hubs for wealthy automobile executives.In addition to their son, Mr. Miller is survived by their daughter, Ann Elizabeth Olstad; three granddaughters; and seven great-grandchildren.In 1968, policy differences prompted Mr. Ford to name a new president. Mr. Miller became vice chairman of the company and dean at Stanford. He left as vice chairman a year later but stayed on the board until 1986.While his salary dropped to about $40,000 a year from more than $400,000, he had always preferred academia — and besides, he still held Ford stock. He remained as dean at Stanford until 1979.Mr. Miller was a leading proponent of incorporating ethics and social responsibility into the curriculum to lay the groundwork for cooperation between government and business.“There are plenty of people in jail today,” he said, “who passed college ethics courses.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsRebuilding the electric grid in Puerto Rico will take months. But blackouts requiring weeks or months to fix are not caused by hurricanes alone. Many of the affected areas are powered by obsolete grids using fossil fuels. These fragile systems are easily knocked out by storms. We can’t eliminate hurricanes. But if we modernize the electric grid, we can stop blackouts caused by monster storms while also saving fossil fuel and reducing emissions of the greenhouse gases that warm the planet and make these storms more likely and destructive.But that does not mean people with their own solar panels or other renewable energy systems managed to keep on their electricity. Though most of those systems were operable immediately after and often even during the storm, they couldn’t produce a watt of power. Outdated utility rules disabled them, not high winds.After Superstorm Sandy hit New Jersey in 2012, more than 90 percent of the solar panels survived, but utility rules required that solar systems tied to the grid be shut down to guard against voltage surges that could endanger repairmen fixing the power lines. Homes that should never have lost power, or should have recovered it immediately, waited weeks for grid repairs they didn’t need. But modern power electronics have resolved the utilities’ legitimate safety concerns.Inverters can be installed that can separate solar systems from the main grid, automatically or manually, and allow the solar systems to continue operating even though the grid is down. Unfortunately, nearly all utilities forbid this.We should use this opportunity in Puerto Rico and other places hit hard by recent storms to do two things: Rebuild damaged or destroyed homes and businesses to be as energy efficient as possible, and rebuild the grid so that alternative energy systems like solar and wind, whether on a home or in a microgrid, can operate independently when the larger grid is damaged or shut down. (Microgrids are small networks of electricity users who rely on a local generating source like solar that is usually attached to the larger grid but can operate independently.)The need for affordable, clean, reliable, resilient power is most acute for the majority of people of Caribbean island nations who pay high prices for electricity generated by burning imported oil and often paid for by imported capital. A nation like the Bahamas can spend a substantial part of its tourist industry’s earnings just to run its electricity system, and other islands are even worse off.Our organization, the Rocky Mountain Institute, works with the Clinton Foundation, international and regional partners, governments and utilities to help Caribbean island nations switch to modern and regionally abundant solar and wind power. Those efforts were going well before the latest hurricanes. Solar arrays in the Turks and Caicos Islands and on Cooper Island in the British Virgin Islands, among others, survived the hurricanes without damage and were able to provide electricity to nearby communities.With those storms behind us, we must work to rebuild stronger, fuel-free, stormproof power systems based on decentralized and resilient renewables like solar. We need to use 21st century innovation, not 20th century technology. Importing fossil fuels costs these island nations enormous sums. Yet the sun shines and the wind blows on these islands for free. We’re optimistic we can do this. But we’ll have to resist our own impulses to carry on with business as usual.What was Cuba’s resilient formula? First, the efficient use of power, which helped renewables do more at lower cost. Millions of efficient light bulbs, fans, rice cookers, pressure cookers, refrigerators, air-conditioners and pumps were sold nationwide, reducing power usage.Most important, Cuba added over 1,800 decentralized diesel and fuel-oil-fired electrical plants across the island and upgraded the infrastructure of the grid itself. Cuba lets these local plants or microgrids disconnect from the island’s grid during storms or blackouts and generate their own electricity for local needs. This allows these microgrids to serve their own customers, then reconnect to the larger grid later.Simple, sensible improvements like these can make our families, communities and nations more secure and durable; save money and create important new value in the electricity, fuel and real-estate industries.When storms, earthquakes, wildfires or cyberattacks take down our brittle power grid, we should all be able to start rebuilding our homes and lives immediately, with our smartphones and water pumps, filling stations and traffic lights, computers and refrigerators, continuously powered by the world’s greatest uninterruptible power supply — the sun.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAs Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, put it this week, “We’ve got to move on to tax reform so we have a competitive tax system,” and do it “pretty quickly.” The House Ways and Means Committee continued hearings on tax legislation on Wednesday.The stakes couldn’t be higher for Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration, all anxious to demonstrate that a party that controls the White House and both houses of Congress can accomplish something significant and deliver on at least one major campaign promise.So what would be the elements of a tax reform plan that is fair and simple and will stimulate growth — not to mention attract at least 50 Republican votes in the Senate?AdvertisementA good place to start, say many Republicans and Democrats, is the Tax Reform Act of 1986, enacted under President Ronald Reagan with bipartisan support.AdvertisementAlmost everyone, it now seems, loves it.“President Reagan was willing to lead on tax reform,” they wrote. “As a result of that leadership and three years of difficult work in Congress, the United States emerged with one of the most modern, fair and competitive tax systems in the developed world — one that laid the foundation for decades of American job growth.”Byron Dorgan, a former Democratic senator and representative from North Dakota, and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee that approved the 1986 bill, wrote in The Hill this year: “It was widely celebrated as a major success. We eliminated many deductions and special deals in the tax code, used the savings to substantially lower the top tax rate to 28 percent, and also simplified the tax code.”The 1986 reform also achieved the elusive goal of being “revenue neutral” (meaning it neither expanded the deficit nor entailed an overall tax increase) even as it cut the top individual rate from 50 percent to 28 percent. The top corporate rate declined to 34 percent, at the time the lowest corporate rate in the developed world, from 46 percent. The legislation offset the loss of revenue by broadening the base — eliminating a host of deductions, exemptions and credits, including many abusive tax shelters. It also greatly simplified returns for millions of taxpayers.Legislators sold the bill to voters as a fair, efficient, simple spur to economic growth, and it proved enormously popular, one of Reagan’s enduring accomplishments. The economy (and the stock market) soared. But over the years, much of it was undone as lobbyists and special interests pushed new preferences into the tax code.As Mr. Brady said this week: “America now has one of the most costly, unfair, and uncompetitive tax systems in the world. The need for pro-growth tax reform is urgent.”So why not go back to 1986 and simply restore the principle that worked so well then — lower tax rates, along with a broader base that avoids increasing the deficit?AdvertisementIt turns out that many people have tried. The most recent example came in 2014, with tax reform legislation drafted by the Ways and Means Committee, led at the time by Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, a Republican who retired from politics in 2015. The legislation followed 30 congressional hearings dedicated to tax reform and 11 separate bipartisan tax reform working groups led by Mr. Camp and Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, then the ranking Democrat on the committee.The Camp reform proposal cut rates and closed loopholes. The bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would lead to the creation of 1.8 million jobs and add up to $3.4 trillion to the gross domestic product without adding to the deficit. The committee estimated that the bill would save an average middle-class family of four $1,300 per year in federal taxes.“I took as inspiration the 1986 act,” Mr. Camp told me this week. “We adopted the same structure and approach. We reduced rates and broadened the base. I felt good about that.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Camp’s effort drew bipartisan praise. “I applaud it,” said C. Eugene Steuerle, a co-founder and fellow of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a key architect of the 1986 reform act and former deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy. While it needed a few amendments, he said, over all “it was rigorous, based on clear principles, and didn’t rely on magic money” to avoid expanding the deficit.The Camp bill never even made it to the House floor.“You can’t just go back to 1986 today,” said Michael J. Graetz, a professor and tax specialist at Columbia and Yale law schools who has written extensively about the 1986 act. Then, there were numerous tax shelters, loopholes and other sources of revenue. Today, “there’s no pot of gold to pay for the cuts, the way there was back in 1986,” Mr. Graetz said.Even though it nominally cut corporate rates, the 1986 act actually shifted much of the tax burden from individuals to corporations. That’s not feasible today, where lowering the tax burden on corporations is a major goal.That was a reality that Mr. Camp had to confront. “The Camp plan turned out to be a reality test,” Mr. Graetz said. “There was a lot of pain in the Camp bill in terms of eliminating tax deductions and credits. And that only got you to a 25 percent corporate rate. President Obama used to say he could get us to 28 percent, also with a lot of pain. But it’s hard to get the business community excited about 28 percent or 25 percent, especially now that the U.K. is moving to 17 percent and Canada is close to that.”And Mr. Camp’s plan wasn’t able to lower individual rates much at all — devising three brackets, taxed at 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent. But it phased out certain deductions and exemptions for people making over $400,000 a year. The Tax Foundation calculated that some taxpayers making more than $400,000 would pay a marginal rate as high as 43.8 percent, in effect a tax increase on the wealthy. It also hit rich taxpayers by lowering the cap on mortgage deductions to $500,000, from $1 million.And the Camp plan actually raised the top effective rate on capital gains and dividends to 24.8 percent, from 23.8 percent, according to the Tax Foundation.AdvertisementThat was anathema to many Republicans.Some of the “pain” inflicted by the Camp plan also hits especially close to the Trump White House, since it proposed closing some of the biggest loopholes for real estate developers. Mr. Camp’s plan eliminated the break for so-called like-kind exchanges, which many real estate developers use to delay or avoid capital gains tax.And the Camp plan proposed longer depreciation schedules, reducing the deductions that businesses can take for capital investment and thus increasing taxes for most real estate developers. The Trump plan calls for immediate expensing of 100 percent of capital costs, eliminating depreciation altogether — an enormous windfall for real estate interests.It should probably come as no surprise that one person who didn’t like the Tax Reform Act of 1986 was Mr. Trump. “One of the worst ideas in recent history,” was how he described it in a 1999 op-ed piece in The Wall Street Journal.Suffice it to say that anything resembling the 1986 act would appear to be dead on arrival with this administration and Congress, even though many tax experts support such an approach.“Camp’s approach is what responsible tax reform should look like, and he garnered no support from either Republicans or Democrats,” Mr. Graetz said.That doesn’t mean people are giving up hope. “I’m still optimistic we can conclude tax reform this year,” said Mr. Camp, now a senior policy adviser at the tax, accounting and consulting firm PwC. He’s been encouraged that Trump administration officials have recently reached out to him.“The issues are difficult but it’s not nearly as partisan as health care,” he said. “There’s been a lot of work done on tax policy over the years, and I think we can build on that. Most people agree there’s an urgent need for tax reform, and I see this as a tremendous opportunity.”An earlier version of this column characterized a House Ways and Means Committee hearing on Wednesday incorrectly. It was the latest of the committee’s hearings on tax reform, not the first.The Common Sense column on Friday, about the legacy of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, misstated the year in which The Wall Street Journal published an op-ed article by Donald J. Trump criticizing that legislation. It was 1999, not 1986.First in a series of Common Sense columns about the shape a responsible tax reform plan might take.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byMr. President, 172,000 West Virginians got insurance for the first time. These are working people, but they’ve got something they never had before. They don’t know how they got it, they don’t know who gave it to them, they don’t know the Democrats, nothing about, “It’s Obamacare." They don’t know any of that. All they know is they’ve got it. And you know what? They voted for you, Mr. President. The Democrats gave it to them but they voted for you. They’re going to know who took it away from them.During the campaign, Trump appeared to fully grasp Manchin’s point.Even after he won the presidency, Trump maintained his pro forma commitment to social insurance.What in fact would the Trump-backed measure passed by the House last week actually do?The distributional impact of the tax provisions is most apparent in the highest income brackets: those in the top one percent, whose household income is more than $770,000, would get an average tax cut of $37,220. Those in the top 0.1 percent, who make $4 million or more, would get an average reduction of $207,240.the proposed changes to Medicaid under AHCA would disproportionately affect low-income individuals and people of color for whom the program is a central source of coverage. Medicaid covers over half of all poor families, one in five adults of color, and over half of children of color.Judith Solomon, vice president for health policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, described some of the AHCA changes in Medicaid in an email.Beginning in 2020, Solomon wrote,states can freeze enrollment and only cover the “grandfathered” enrollees who were enrolled on 12/31/19. The block grant option allows states to cut eligibility. The only requirement would be to cover pregnant women and children under age 6 with incomes under 138% of the poverty line, and children 6 to 18 below the poverty line.Along similar lines, Matthew Fiedler, a Brookings fellow, wrote me:The two most important Medicaid provisions under the AHCA are: (1) cutting federal funding for covering the ACA Medicaid expansion population; and (2) implementing a “per capita cap” that would limit the total amount of federal funding states could receive per person they enroll. Both provisions would give states very strong incentives to curtail eligibility, but neither would directly require states to do so.Just as the tax changes in the Republican bill flow to the rich, so do the health care benefits.Those making less than $10,000-a-year would lose an average of about $1,400, or nearly one-third of their income — under the AHCA relative to the ACA. Middle-income households, those making $50,000 to $75,000, would see little change — an average increase in net government transfers of about $60. However, those making $200,000 or more would receive an average net increase in government support of $5,640, or 1.1 percent of their income.Gleckman explained that thedecline in well-being for low-income people would result from the AHCA’s proposals to cut the federal contribution to Medicaid and its move to eliminate cost-sharing subsidies for lower-income households that buy non-group insurance, thus raising their deductibles and co-pays.allow for people with pre-existing conditions to be charged more per year for their insurance coverage — possibly to the tune of thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars more per year.result in millions of Americans losing their health care coverage and could make coverage unaffordable for people with pre-existing conditions.From another vantage point, one with political significance, maps created by the Kaiser Family Foundation show how individuals of different ages and incomes would fare if the AHCA replaces Obamacare.The affluent come out ahead. Older voters with modest incomes — a core element of Trump’s support — would be penalized, paying more for health coverage in almost every section of the country.The accompanying Kaiser map shows the sections of the country where a 60-year-old making $30,000-a-year would pay more (in orange) or less (in blue) in 2020. The only places where such an individual would pay less are in New York and Massachusetts.The consequences of the House bill, if it is enacted into law, are plain to see.Mark A. Peterson, a professor of public policy, political science, and law at U.C.L.A., put the case in straightforward terms in an email:The Medicaid cuts and caps would withdraw coverage from large swaths of the poor, the working poor, and lower-paid working class individuals who do not have access to affordable employer-sponsored insurance. The shift to the tax credits for insurance purchase would mean that many working- and lower-middle-class individuals and families would be unable to afford insurance. The weakening of the pre-existing condition protections, and the reliance on usually problematic high-risk pools, would be most detrimental to people with those conditions who are not in the higher ranks of income.Benjamin Sommers, a professor of health policy and economics at Harvard’s School of Public Health, was similarly direct:The AHCA repeals hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes on high-income households and insurance companies, while reducing the Obamacare tax credits that helped lower and middle income families purchase health insurance. The changes to Medicaid are even more dramatic, with more than $800 billion dollars in federal money for the program cut over the next decade — this will have a huge impact on the 70 million lower-income children, adults, disabled individuals, and elderly who currently rely on Medicaid for their health care.Add in the termination of the taxes of investment income and the higher tax obligations in general of more affluent individuals and the AHCA would lead to a dramatic shift of resources away from the poor, working class, and lower middle class, especially for people with jobs outside of the realm of large employers.As is always the case in legislation as complex as health care, the devil is in the details, the significance of which is often hidden from the general public. It is these details that ultimately determine the winners and the losers of any legislative program.For many years, some conservatives have berated the political left for “waging class war” whenever the left suggested that conservative policies helped to further enrich the wealthy at the expense of the poor.In a harsh critique, Aaron added:The AHCA is stunning in its shamelessness and baldness. Even allowing for the fact that Republicans will be ashamed and embarrassed if, after seven years, of promising to “repeal and replace” they were to do nothing, it is difficult to understand why the shame of voting for so egregious and contemptible a piece of legislation did not cause more of them to find it impossible to vote for it.The most surprising aspect of the politics of the AHCA is that by and large the winners cast majorities for Clinton and the losers backed Trump.voters hit the hardest — eligible for at least $5,000 less in tax credits under the Republican plan — supported Mr. Trump by a margin of 59 percent to 36 percent.Affluent constituencies that cast pluralities or majorities for Hillary Clinton actually gained from the measure.Conservative tax reform — perhaps better described as radical tax cuts for the rich — is the very highest priority issue on the Republican legislative agenda. It is also dear to Trump’s heart.In order to get any tax overhaul through the Senate with a simple majority, the tax bill under Senate rules can’t increase the federal deficit. Since the health care bill would cut the federal deficit it makes it easier to come back later and pass more tax cuts.is an old one: divide and rule. The rich guy convinced much of the white working class that he would “take back” the country from the rest of the working class and other undeserving non-white and non-Christian people, as well as the coastal elites giving those folks jobs and handouts at the expense of “real” Americans. It’s a strategy as old as this country.Dunlap is on target. But it’s one thing to gut regulations and change tax rates to benefit the affluent and another thing altogether to take away someone’s health care coverage. Voters who are denied medical care or find themselves unable to pay bills from doctors or hospitals are unlikely to be receptive to a campaign that seeks to “divide and rule,” no matter how receptive they may have been in 2016.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported bySmall college outbreaks four years ago of meningitis B — an extremely rare variation of the dangerous infection — have set off a lucrative new business: persuading parents that pricey vaccines are a loving investment for their college-bound children.Says another voice: “And we don’t want something like meningitis B getting in their way.”Vaccine makers are hoping to profit from an ailment that very few people get. Still, analysts expect the two medications to generate at least hundreds of millions of dollars in global sales annually. GlaxoSmithKline said that Bexsero alone brought in $166 million in the United States last year.That’s a remarkable number considering that at the time of the outbreaks four years ago, which occurred at Princeton and the University of California Santa Barbara, Bexsero wasn’t even available in the United States — in fact, no meningitis B vaccines were on the market. Despite availability abroad, vaccines had never been licensed in the country because of the apparent limited need.Meningitis B is unusual. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated fewer than 300 cases occur in the United States per year, and some medical experts interviewed suggested the number may be closer to 50 or 60. It is more common in European countries, particularly Britain.However, the headlines prompted by the 13 campus cases — which resulted in one death and one double amputation — helped reshape the financial prospects for the drugs. Some physicians and other industry experts are now growing uneasy about the role of marketing in leveraging parental fears to sell the meningitis B vaccines as well as other expensive vaccines for rare illnesses.A complete Bexsero series costs $320. A competing vaccine for meningitis B, Trumenba, a Pfizer product, costs $345.“Parents believe their children are susceptible to this terrible condition, and use that fear to get parents to take action,” said Adrienne Faerber, who teaches at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice and researches drug marketing.Vaccine-sellers argue their marketing isn’t capitalizing on parent concerns, or inflating the risk of contracting infection, but rather, providing fair, contextualized information. “Companies themselves are saying this is a rare disease — it’s uncommon, it’s unpredictable and yet it’s devastating,” said Sally Beatty, a Pfizer spokeswoman.A GlaxoSmithKline representative echoed that. “The ad says, ‘go speak to your health care provider and have an informed decision,’” said Sriram Jambunathan, who heads GlaxoSmithKline’s meningococcal franchise in the United States. “We educate consumers.”For parents, the decision whether or not to use the vaccines can be left unresolved by federal vaccination guidelines and university requirements.Meanwhile, insurers generally cover it as part of preventive care. Still, most universities don’t require the vaccine, but simply list it as an option for families to consider.Those messages can confuse parents.“There is perhaps, with all the marketing and advertising, some bending of the truth, and perhaps a little bit of creating fear — again recognizing that meningitis disease is a very severe disease,” said William Moss, a professor at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health who specializes in vaccines and global children’s health. The risk, he said, “is not a large enough problem to warrant routine vaccination.”In recent years, drugmakers’ interests have begun to expand beyond the relatively cheap, broadly used immunizations, such as a tetanus shot or the children’s hepatitis A vaccine, to new and pricier ones for less common infections.These newer treatments have the potential to transform the business of vaccine-making, long a less lucrative side of drug production, into a cash cow. Bexsero and its competitor, Trumenba, offer clues into how this scenario plays out.Both vaccines received accelerated approval by the Food and Drug Administration in 2015 and 2014 respectively, after the two university outbreaks.Meningitis B does not spread readily from person to person; it generally requires close physical contact like kissing or sharing utensils. It can be fatal, but is treatable with antibiotics if caught early. The standard meningitis vaccine doesn’t prevent it.After new cases kept appearing at Princeton and the University of California Santa Barbara after several months, the CDC arranged for an emergency import of Bexsero, and all students on those campuses received the shots. There were no more cases.Now the drugmakers are urging all parents to be proactive. Last year, Pfizer put more than $21 million into paid advertisements for the vaccine, according to figures kept by Kantar Media, a firm that tracks multimedia advertising. GlaxoSmithKline put in just about $79,000.But the industry’s gain may come at the expense of efficient health care spending and inflated consumer concern. “As a mom, I would say, if my kid got this disease, and I had had the opportunity to prevent it, and I didn’t, I would kill myself,” said Martha Arden, a practicing physician and the medical director Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center’s school-based health program in New York City “But the odds are small. It’s much more dangerous to send a kid out skiing than it is to not give the vaccine.”Mr. Jambunathan said the price tag is warranted given the resources needed to bring Bexsero to market. Similar vaccines, he added, are comparably priced, and firms won’t necessarily want to develop these pharmaceuticals if they aren’t sure they can recoup their investment.For parents who opt for the vaccines there are caveats. Researchers don’t know, for instance, how long its immunity lasts. Many noted it also doesn’t cover all strains of the infection, so its efficacy in the United States is uncertain. (There are different strains in different parts of the world.)And the costs of vaccination, while substantial, aren’t immediately felt by consumers because the treatment usually is covered without out-of-pocket expenses. But they may contribute to increasing insurance premium costs.In a world where there aren’t enough health care dollars to address every possible harm, many experts noted, other health concerns might be a smarter investment. Still, the price tag may not cause parents to blink. “When it’s your child or one case you know about, suddenly the health economic arguments feel difficult to have,” Mr. Jambunathan said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementHere’s the problem: It’s summertime and, yes, we know we should still be paying attention to personal finance issues.But really. If we’re lucky enough to get away for a few days, do we actually want to take a book about investing to the beach?Publishers have inadvertently solved the problem for us.AdvertisementThe protagonist, Anil Jha, 52, has been managing a technical training franchise and teaching computer programming on the side, enjoying a quiet life with his wife, Bindu, in a modest housing complex in East Delhi, India. He becomes wealthy overnight when he sells a website he created for what “felt like more money than was in the whole world,” the equivalent of $20 million.AdvertisementHe decides to move to “one of the richest new neighborhoods of Delhi.”Worried that he does not have the trappings of success, Mr. Jha starts aping the lifestyle of a new wealthy neighbor, who, in turn, starts to study Mr. Jha’s lifestyle. A conspicuous-consumption race follows, and one character observes, “Only the rich claim that money can’t buy happiness.”The financial lessons in the book are these:1. True financial independence comes from starting a successful business (something not all of us can do).2. Keeping up with the Joneses, or the Jhas in this case, is just silly. (And if the Jhas decide, in turn, to keep up with you, it becomes sillier.)3. It is probably a good idea to periodically re-evaluate why you are trying to acquire wealth.While Ms. Basu concentrates on upward mobility, Angelica Baker deals with what happens to the lives of the extremely rich when it all goes away.Ms. Baker’s debut novel, “Our Little Racket” (Ecco, $27.99), centers on the downfall of an investment bank C.E.O. during the financial crisis of a decade ago, told from the perspective of three women in his life: his unfulfilled spouse, his teenage daughter and the nanny.See how the largest, leading and lagging funds compare.Find funds by their type, performance, risk or expenses.Bob D’Amico — nicknamed Silverback (as in gorilla) — is trying to stave off allegations of wrongdoing as his poor decisions cause his firm, Weiss & Partners, to slowly disintegrate.While his actions tarnish his own reputation, they have a big impact on the three women who lose status in Greenwich, Conn., the New York City suburb where the D’Amicos have their primary home. (They own three others.) Gossip spreads, rumors fly and the three women are forced to fend for themselves in the wake of Weiss & Partners’ death spiral.AdvertisementThe financial lessons:1. Live within your means.2. Make sure you have adequate liquid reserves to cover an emergency. (The family is forced to auction off its art collection to pay the bills.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.3. Diversify your holdings. The family is overly invested in both real estate and the stock of Mr. D’Amico’s failing company.For pure escapism — literally, since some of the characters have the ability to leave their bodies and fly about — there is “Spoonbenders” (Knopf, $27.95), by Daryl Gregory, who is also author of the novel “Afterparty.”In his new book, a down-on-their-luck family battles two sets of issues simultaneously. On the one hand, each member is trying to come to grips with being “blessed” with extrasensory powers (the ability to see the future; telekinesis; pyrokinesis and the unfailing facility to tell if someone is lying).On the other, the entire family is fending off:The government, which wants them to become superspies.The mob, which wants its money back because one of the family members (in a remarkable lack of foresight for a psychic) has been borrowing heavily from them as he tries unsuccessfully to become an entrepreneur.A psychic debunker, “a short bald man with a ridiculous black handlebar mustache,” who is out to prove they are all frauds.The writing is crisp and frequently clever. (“They piled into Irene’s Festiva, a car that won the award for most ironic distance between name and driving experience.”) And after the bleakness of Ms. Baker’s novel and the ambiguity in Ms. Basu’s, this one has a classic happy ending.The financial lessons:1. Read financial documents carefully. One of the characters works, briefly, at a sleazy company that dupes its customers into signing away control of their investments so that the firm can churn their accounts.2. Get-rich-quick schemes invariably fail or are outright fraudulent.3. Don’t borrow from the mob.Enjoy the summer.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseFew, if any, literary philosophers have had as much influence on American business and politics as Ayn Rand, especially now that Donald J. Trump occupies the White House.President Trump named Rand his favorite writer and “The Fountainhead” his favorite novel. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has cited “Atlas Shrugged” as a favorite work, and the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, said the book “really had an impact on me.”As Ray Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest hedge fund, put it in a recent essay, “her books pretty well capture the mind-set” of the Trump administration. “This new administration hates weak, unproductive, socialist people and policies,” he wrote, “and it admires strong, can-do profit makers.”In business, Rand’s influence has been especially pronounced in Silicon Valley, where her overarching philosophy that “man exists for his own sake, that the pursuit of his own happiness is his highest moral purpose, that he must not sacrifice himself to others, nor sacrifice others to himself,” as she described it in a 1964 Playboy interview, has an obvious appeal for self-made entrepreneurs. Last year Vanity Fair anointed her the most influential figure in the technology industry, surpassing Steve Jobs.And then there’s the scandal-engulfed Trump administration, where devotion to Rand’s teaching has done little to advance the president’s legislative agenda.Though people close to Mr. Kalanick told me this week that he has distanced himself from many of Rand’s precepts while undergoing an intense period of personal reassessment, they all acknowledged that she’d had a profound influence on his development. Few companies have been as closely identified with Rand’s philosophy as Uber.Uber disrupted a complacent, highly regulated and often corrupt taxi industry on a global scale, an achievement Rand’s heroes Howard Roark and Dagny Taggart would surely have admired. Many of her ideas were embedded in Uber’s code of values. Mr. Kalanick used the original cover art for “The Fountainhead” as his Twitter avatar until 2013 (when he exchanged it for an image of Alexander Hamilton, and then, in May, for one of himself).“Rand’s entrepreneur is the Promethean hero of capitalism,” said Lawrence E. Cahoone, professor of philosophy at the College of the Holy Cross, whose lecture on Rand is part of his Great Courses series, “The Modern Political Tradition.” “But she never really explores how a dynamic entrepreneur actually runs a business.”“She was a script and fiction writer,” he continued. “She was motivated by an intense hatred of communism, and she put those things together very effectively. She can be very inspirational, especially to entrepreneurs. But she was by no means an economist. I don’t think her work can be used as a business manual.”Representatives of Uber and Mr. Kalanick declined to comment.Rand’s defenders insist that the problems for Mr. Kalanick and others influenced by Rand aren’t that they embraced her philosophy, but rather that they didn’t go far enough.Yaron Brook, executive chairman of the Ayn Rand Institute and a former finance professor at Santa Clara University, who teaches seminars on business leadership and ethics from an Objectivist perspective, said, “Few business people have actually read her essays and philosophy and studied her in depth.” Mr. Brook said that while Mr. Kalanick “was obviously talented and energetic and a visionary, he took superficial inspiration from her ideas and used her philosophy to justify his obnoxiousness.”He emphasized that Rand would never have tolerated sexual harassment or any kind of mistreatment of employees. Rand “had enormous respect for people who worked hard and did a good job, whether a secretary or a railroad worker,” he said. “Her heroes ran businesses with employees who were very loyal because they were treated fairly. Of course, some people had to be fired. But she makes a big deal out of the virtue of justice, which applies in business as well as politics.”And even though “she’d celebrate what Travis did with the taxi industry, showing the world how all those regulations made no sense, she also believed there are rules of justice that do make sense and she supported,” he said. “You can’t just run over all the regulations you don’t happen to like.”Mr. Brook complained that Rand’s critics are quick to point to her followers’ failures, but rarely mention their successes. He cited the example of John A. Allison IV, the much-admired former head of BB&T Corporation, a regional bank in the Southeast that he built into one of the nation’s largest before he stepped down in 2008. Mr. Allison handed out copies of “Atlas Shrugged” to senior executives and is a major donor to the Ayn Rand Institute. He incorporated many of Rand’s teachings into his 2014 book, “The Leadership Crisis and the Free Market Cure.”“John is a gentleman and he actually studied Rand’s works in depth,” Mr. Brook said. “He couldn’t be more different from Travis.”Mr. Allison has called for abolishing the Federal Reserve, while acknowledging that so drastic a step is unlikely. He has met with Mr. Trump at the White House and has been widely mentioned as a potential successor to Janet L. Yellen as Fed chief.Despite Rand’s pervasive influence and continuing popularity on college campuses, relatively few people embrace her version of extreme libertarianism. Former President Barack Obama, in a 2012 Rolling Stone interview, criticized her “narrow vision” and described her work “as one of those things that a lot of us, when we were 17 or 18 and feeling misunderstood, we’d pick up.”She’s also dismissed by most serious academics. “Mention Ayn Rand to a group of academic philosophers and you’ll get laughed out of the room,” Mr. Cahoone said. “But I think there’s something to be said for Rand. She takes Nietzschean individualism to an extreme, but she’s undeniably inspirational.”As the mysterious character John Galt proclaims near the end of “Atlas Shrugged”: “Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate, the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish, in lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but have never been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it is possible, it’s yours.”But Rand has little to say about making the transition from this kind of heroic entrepreneurial vision to a mature corporation with many stakeholders, a problem many company founders have confronted and struggled with, whether or not they’ve read or been influenced by her. “She never really had to manage anything,” Mr. Cahoone said. “She was surrounded by people who saw her as a cult figure. She didn’t have employees, she had worshipers.”For his part, Mr. Kalanick is said to have turned this summer from Rand to what is considered one of the greatest dramatic works in the English language, Shakespeare’s “Henry V” — a play in which the young, reckless and wayward Prince Hal matures into one of England’s most revered and beloved monarchs.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS