AdvertisementEvangelical Christians may not approve of Trump, but they are among his strongest constituencies in this year’s campaign. The Christian right has found common ground with Trump’s less devout supporters on a wide range of matters.This country is the equivalent of that hijacked plane right now. We’re headed to a disaster, unless we can get control of the cockpit again.Ladies and gentlemen, this is a Flight 93 election. This may be our last shot. It’s time to roll. It’s time to run down the aisle and save Western civilization.AdvertisementIn April, P.R.R.I. asked voters: do you agree or disagree with the statement “Society as a whole has become too soft and feminine.” The results demonstrated the overlap between the views of the religious right and the Trump electorate:Among religious groups, white evangelical Protestants stand out as the only one in which a majority, 53 percent, agree that society has become too soft and feminine.Along parallel lines, the survey found that 68 percent of Trump supporters agree that society is too soft and feminine, far more than supporters of any other candidate, Republican or Democrat.AdvertisementA second illuminating question P.R.R.I. posed to voters was whether this statement accurately described their feelings: “It bothers me when I come in contact with immigrants who speak little or no English.”Again Trump voters and the religious right agree. Compared to backers of all the other candidates, Trump voters expressed the highest level of discomfort, 77 percent. Among religious groups, white evangelical Protestants voiced the highest levels of distress, 64 percent, when they find themselves around immigrants who speak little or no English,.There are a host of other measures on which Trump supporters and the religious right are in accord.Take responses to a third P.R.R.I. statement: “Today discrimination against whites has become as big a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities.”A solid 57 percent majority of white Americans whom P.R.R.I. surveyed agreed, but two groups stood out: Trump supporters at 81 percent and white evangelical Protestants at 68 percent.The opinion overlap does not end there, P.R.R.I. found:No group of Americans is more nostalgic about the 1950s than white evangelical Protestants. Seven in ten (70-29) white evangelical Protestants believe that American culture and way of life has mostly changed for the worse since the 1950s.Donald Trump has successfully transformed evangelical voters from so-called “values voters” into “nostalgia voters.”Similarly, according to P.R.R.I.,Republican and Republican-leaning independents who supported Trump during the primary are far more likely to say that American culture and way of life has gotten worse (68 percent) than to say it has improved (32 percent).Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementMany conservative Christians consider enactment of religious liberty legislation crucial to the survival of their movement.Here is Deckman on the idea of “religious liberty”:Fearful that the government will make our pastors perform same-sex marriage? Fearful that our children will be placed in danger because they will have to use bathrooms that are gender neutral? Fearful that “un-American” Muslims will immigrate to the United States and enact sharia law? Religious liberty is a concept that encapsulates these concerns. Fear is always a powerful motivator in American politics.Yet another area of commonality between Christian conservatives and the Trump campaign is their shared belief in the duty of the strong to lead the weak — the importance of leadership built on strength, authority and discipline.Dobson’s thinking on the topic of strength and authority is dominated by a single theme:If the strong-willed child is allowed by indulgence to develop “habits” of defiance and disrespect during his early childhood, those characteristics will haunt him and his parents for the next twenty years.As a case study for handling defiant children, Dobson describes his own method for dealing with a six-year-old pet Dachshund, Siggie, who refused Dobson’s order to go to sleep in “a permanent enclosure.”The only way to make Siggie obey is to threaten him with destruction. Nothing else works. I turned and went to my closet and got a small belt to help me “reason” with Mr. Freud.What developed next is impossible to describe. That tiny dog and I had the most vicious fight ever staged between man and beast. I fought him up one wall and down the other, with both of us scratching and clawing and growling and swinging the belt. Inch by inch I moved him toward the family room and his bed. As a final desperate maneuver, Siggie backed into the corner for one last snarling stand. I eventually got him to bed, only because I outweighed him 200 to 12!To a power-hungry tyrant of any age, appeasement only inflames his or her lust for more power.Dobson’s story about Siggie gives us a glimpse of how the views on authority of some on the right match up with Trump’s views on what it takes to be an effective leader.Failed leaders — Trump’s Republican opponents in the primaries, Republicans who continue to reject his bid and, most of all, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama — are endlessly “weak:”On Kelly Ayotte, New Hampshire Republican Senator:On Clinton:On Obama:Weak leaders, in Trump’s view, encourage adversaries to defy American authority. In this context, weakness and permissiveness are interchangeable.AdvertisementThe list of humiliations goes on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea.For years, secular progressives have said that evangelical social action in America is not about religious conviction but all about power.This year, Moore noted, Christian leaders who in the 1990sgave stem-winding speeches about “character” in office during the Clinton administration now minimize the spewing of profanities in campaign speeches, race-baiting and courting white supremacists, boasting of adulterous affairs, debauching public morality and justice through the casino and pornography industries.In backing Trump, Moore concluded, “a group of high-profile old-guard evangelicals has proven these critics right.”I would run from that candidate as far as possible, because the Sermon on the Mount was not given as a governing principle for this nation.In practice, Jeffress said:Nowhere is government told to forgive those who wrong it, nowhere is government told to turn the other cheek. Government is to be a strongman to protect its citizens against evildoers. When I’m looking for somebody who’s going to deal with ISIS and exterminate ISIS, I don’t care about that candidate’s tone or vocabulary, I want the meanest, toughest, son of a you-know-what I can find, and I believe that’s biblical.In other words, key leaders of the Christian right want a president who will treat recalcitrant nations and people in the way that Dobson dealt with Siggie — “the meanest, toughest, son of a you-know-what I can find.” It’s little wonder that these same leaders are willing to overlook the bottomless list of Trump’s personal and business failings.Clyde Wilcox, a political scientist at Georgetown who has written sympathetically about the religious right, emailed me his take:In the end it is partisanship and not religion that drives them nearly 40 years after the formation of the Moral Majority.The religious right was never about the advancement of biblical values. The modern, politically conservative evangelical movement we know is a movement rooted in the perpetuation of racial segregation, and its affiliation with the hard-right fringes of the conservative movement in the late 1970s produced a mutant form of evangelicalism inconsistent with the best traditions of evangelicalism itself. Since then, evangelicals have embraced increasingly secular positions divorced from any biblical grounding, and supporting Donald Trump represents the logical conclusion of that tragic aberration.See More »Go to Home Page »