AdvertisementSupported bySquare FeetOne boundary that Seymour Durst, the second-generation patriarch of the business, always longed to push was the south.“It’s getting harder and harder to do office construction,” Ms. Durst said during a recent tour of the tower. “Housing is so much more valuable now, even in Midtown, it’s taking over.”Joining the divergent strands of the family’s business — offices and housing — is a first for the Dursts.With space running out in sought-after areas, what better solution than to stack one atop the other? In the case of Eos, this means about 375 rental apartments over 122,000 square feet of office space and 49,000 square feet of retail space.“The housing definitely makes the commercial more feasible,” said Ms. Durst, the chief administrative officer.Mixed-use development has long been a dream of city planners, who see it as a way to promote density, a crucial need as cities worldwide continue to swell.Crowding is what first dispersed these uses in New York, just as it is now bringing them back together. In the early part of the 20th century, the growth of dirty garment factories around the expensive shops and fine residences of Fifth Avenue spurred the creation of the zoning code, and commercial and residential spaces became more segregated.Such developments are not unheard-of in Manhattan, though zoning quirks tend to stifle variety. One of the earliest modern examples of mixed-use development is Trump Tower.When shops began fleeing Fifth Avenue in the 1970s, the city permitted developers, who preferred to construct housing, to build bigger structures if they included commercial uses. This allowed Donald J. Trump to create a five-story atrium that is home to Gucci’s flagship store, as well as many campaign rallies for Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee for president. Above the atrium are 26 floors of offices and 39 floors of apartments.More recent examples include the 72-story CitySpire, built in 1987 on West 56th Street, where the first 23 floors are dedicated to offices; and the Bloomberg Building on Lexington Avenue, which houses the headquarters of the financial news service.There may, however, be a disconnect between downstairs businesses and billionaire tenants. “Do you really think people like Steven A. Cohen are shopping at the Home Depot,” Mr. Chakrabarti said, referring to the hedge fund manager whose penthouse at the Bloomberg tower was once on the market for $115 million.The Dursts did not always plan to create a mixed-use building.In 2010, the Durst Organization, in partnership with Fetner Properties, bought the debt then foreclosed on the 855 Avenue of the Americas property, then owned by the Brooklyn developer Joseph Chetrit. For two years, the developers considered building a hotel, but eventually turned to Seymour Durst’s office space idea. Fetner is no longer involved in the project.“When we first started this project, people thought we were crazy to include office space,” Ms. Durst said.Last year, Nike agreed to rent all of the 122,000 square feet of office space on the second through sixth floors.Residents and workers have separate lobbies, elevator cores and terraces. Both sets of tenants do share at least one thing: the basement gym. There, Nike is working with the Dursts to build a basketball court and outfit gym equipment so professional athletes can test new gear in the same spaces frequented by weekend warriors and part-time yogis.“You need treadmills that go a lot faster,” said Julia Limongello, the project manager for Eos, as she stood in the unfinished gym over the summer. “You’ll see a lot more 50-pound dumbbells.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS