AdvertisementBefore setting off on Wednesday to visit Enrique Peña Nieto, the president of Mexico, Donald Trump appeared to be making a feint toward equivocation on immigration and trade. But with less than 10 weeks to go before Election Day, a blustering Trump told an expectant audience in Arizona that he wasn’t reneging on his signature promise. After failing to address the issue with Peña Nieto in a serious way — bringing back nothing concrete and providing no further details — he blithely told a rally in Phoenix:We will build a great wall along the southern border. And Mexico will pay for the wall. One hundred percent. They don’t know it yet, but they’re going to pay for it.The election still must be won on native ground, though, and all flimflam aside, Trump still faces a narrow Electoral College pathway to 270 votes.The most striking thing about the less than impressive Trump rally in Manchester, N.H., I attended last week was the near complete absence of any of the state’s prominent Republicans.In normal times, you could not keep ambitions politicians away from an opportunity to meet and greet 800-plus voters two weeks ahead of the state primary on Sept. 13, and with Election Day in sight.AdvertisementAdvertisementOther Republicans in tough races in New Hampshire have decided that sticking with Trump is a losing bet in a state that has moved from red to purple. They are keeping him at arm’s length.Facing a tough challenge from Maggie Hassan, the Democratic Governor, Ayotte, who campaigned long and hard for Mitt Romney in 2012, has tried to describe what she calls a “big distinction.”On one hand, she said “Everyone gets a vote, I do too.” On the other, “an endorsement is when you are campaigning with someone.”While this is just the kind of distinction without a difference voters are suspicious of, Ayotte is very clearly not campaigning with Trump.I am going to be doing what’s best for my campaign and the voters who are putting their trust in me. Whatever happens on the campaign trail will be built around that.In contrast — at least before the latest Clinton foundation revelations — New Hampshire Democrats were solidly in Hillary Clinton’s camp. The WBUR survey found that 86 percent of Democrats said they would vote for Clinton, while 4 percent would vote for Trump; 8 percent said they would vote for a third-party candidate and one percent said they were undecided.AdvertisementEven more troubling for local Republican candidates is the finding that independent voters favor Clinton over Trump by better than two to one, 49-23.A higher than average share of New Hampshire voters do not align with either party — pollsters estimate that 15 to 17 percent fall into this category — and they play a crucial role in determining the outcome of general elections.Democrats, for their part, are doing everything they can to turn Trump into a Republican albatross.New Hampshire, once one of the most reliably Republican states in the nation, began to shift in a Democratic direction in 1992. From 1992 to 2012, Democratic presidential candidates carried the state in every election except 2000. Democratic candidates have also won nine of the last 10 gubernatorial elections, which take place every two years.New Hampshire reflects many of the difficulties facing the Trump campaign.And if you look at New York, you look at Indiana, you look at Pennsylvania, you look at all of them … they all have one thing in common. No matter where you go, it’s like 40 percent, it’s like 50 percent, 60 percent, jobs are gone.Second, Trump’s Manchester rally itself raises a basic question: Why was the Republican presidential nominee spending valuable time in New Hampshire, a state with a paltry four Electoral College votes? His trip here last Thursday was his second this summer and his fourth since he won big in the state primary in February.Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementJoel Benenson, pollster and strategist for the Clinton campaign, said in a phone interview that New Hampshire reflects the national campaign:The dynamic here is that there is no state where Trump is forcing us to play defense in a state we wouldn’t play in anyway. He is not pushing into our map. States like New Hampshire, he can’t afford to lose, while we have opportunity states, like Virginia, Arizona and North Carolina. Real opportunities to expand the map.Another factor in Trump’s decision to invest a chunk of time in New Hampshire last week is that he has no strong surrogates here to build momentum. With prominent Republicans shunning him, he has to do his own heavy lifting.Voters I talked to in downtown Concord expressed a strong distaste for both candidates, but generally tilted toward Clinton when pressed.A policewoman ticketing cars on North Main Street initially said she did not like either candidate — “I’m thankful I’m wearing this uniform so I don’t have to answer you.” But as the conversation progressed, she acknowledged that she was almost certain to vote for Clinton. “She wants to help families, jobs, the middle class. There really is no other choice.” As for Trump, “I don’t believe a word that comes out of his mouth.”Jeffery Wells, 51, who told me that he receives annual disability payments of roughly $22,000 for COPD and back trouble, captured the conflicted feelings of some Clinton supporters:Like her, no. But vote for her, yes. She’s much more experienced, she’s been everywhere, she has done a lot for families and children.Bill and Christine White are independent voters who moved to New Hampshire from Massachusetts 15 years ago after they retired. Ms. White, who recalled her support for George McGovern in 1972, said “Trump is the worst candidate I can remember in my life.” Her husband believes that “Hillary is just saying everything people want to hear.” Both Whites plan to vote for a third-party candidate so that, as Bill White said, they can “feel morally right.”There are orthodox Republicans who do plan to support Trump.They argued that Trump would be more reasonable in the White House than he has been on the campaign trail, and that his experience in business would make him a good chief executive.“He’s not crazy. You don’t get where he is by being crazy,” said David P. Currier, a former state senator who now is running the Henniker Brewing Company. “He says a lot of things for effect — he’s a New Yorker.”AdvertisementBob Nash, a state lobbyist for an insurance agents association, said that he is confident that Trump, once in the White House, would be constrained by the American system of government.“I am a firm believer in the check and balances in our system,” Nash said, adding “Trump is an intelligent man, he’s been a successful man all his life.”Nash said he voted for Clinton in the 2008 New Hampshire primary, but that as a veteran he is now firmly opposed to her bid because he believes she mismanaged the 2012 attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi. “I am absolutely convinced without a shadow of a doubt that she lied to those parents,” he said.Leigh Bosse, 69, who publishes a weekly paper in Hillsborough, N.H., said he was voting for Trump, but with mixed feelings.“I’ve put my foot in my mouth many times, but he does it daily,” Bosse said. “Trump says some good things, but by God” — Bosse paused to show his exasperation. He said he would vote for Gary Johnson if the Libertarian Party nominee had a chance of winning. But as a practical matter, Bosse said he will vote for Trump in large part because he finds Clinton anathema: “I can’t believe Hillary hasn’t been indicted.”Trump’s uphill fight to win New Hampshire is likely to be made steeper by the Union Leader, the dominant paper in the state.Trump has shown himself to be a crude blowhard with no clear political philosophy and no deeper understanding of the important and serious role of President of the United States than one of the goons he lets rough up protesters in his crowds.The Trump-McQuaid dust-up illuminates some of the most important dilemmas facing the Trump campaign.AdvertisementRothwell analyzed geographic and demographic characteristics of 87,428 adults asked in Gallup Daily Tracking surveys in July if they had favorable or unfavorable views of Trump.Rothwell found thatTrump’s supporters are older, with higher household incomes, are more likely to be male, white non-Hispanic, less likely to identify as LGBTQ, less likely to hold a bachelor’s degree or higher education, more likely to be a veteran or family member of a veteran, more likely to work in a blue-collar occupation, and are more likely to be Christian and report that religion is important to them.In addition, racial isolation increases the likelihood of Trump support:People living in ZIP codes with disproportionately high shares of white residents are significantly and robustly more likely to view Trump favorably.Trump’s problem, in New Hampshire and elsewhere, is that his pockets of strength are not substantial enough to produce majorities. In the huge Gallup sample, 65 percent reported unfavorable views of Trump.The funny thing is that what would make a Trump victory most plausible is just the kind of un-American activity he has been campaigning against — in this case, a multiparty parliamentary system. For good or ill, many European electoral systems foster, rather than suffocate, candidates who can’t win majorities but who have a shot at winning a plurality.It’s not the kind of country Trump would want to live in, but it’s the kind of country that might elect him.See More »Go to Home Page »