AdvertisementSupported byJust days after employees at NFL Network were accused of sexual harassment, the Carolina Panthers said Friday that the team had begun an investigation into “allegations of workplace misconduct” made against the team’s owner, Jerry Richardson.“The Carolina Panthers and Mr. Richardson take these allegations very seriously and are fully committed to a full investigation and taking appropriate steps to address and remediate any misconduct,” the statement said.The investigation into Richardson brings a broadening focus on workplace harassment to the heart of the country’s wealthiest and most powerful sports league. While he has assumed a lower profile recently, Richardson for years traveled in the inner circle of the league’s business. He is the lone former N.F.L. player within the league’s ownership fraternity.The Panthers announced that the team had hired the law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan to look into the accusations against Richardson, and that Erskine Bowles, a Clinton administration official and a minority owner of the team, would oversee the investigation.It is unclear how independent the investigation will be because it is being led by a team stakeholder who is presumably close to Richardson. In other investigations of sports franchise owners, the league itself has taken the lead, such as when the N.B.A. looked into racist remarks made by Donald Sterling, then the owner of the Los Angeles Clippers.Bowles was the White House chief of staff for President Bill Clinton in 1997 and 1998, when an investigation began into Clinton’s sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky, who was a White House intern.Richardson has served on many of the influential owners’ committees, and he played a large role in ending the N.F.L. lockout in 2011. In 2015, he was at the center of the league’s handling of domestic violence allegations. He announced the Panthers would not re-sign defensive end Greg Hardy — who had been suspended by the league and convicted of domestic violence, though the conviction was later overturned. Richardson explained the decision simply: “We do the right things.”The investigation into Richardson was first reported by ESPN.N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said Wednesday at an owners meeting in Dallas that the league would investigate the claims in the lawsuit.The N.F.L. updated its personal conduct policy in 2014, expanding the guidelines and penalties to cover not just players, but all employees. The league also set up its own investigative unit to look into claims of misconduct off the field.Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L. spokesman, declined to comment on the investigation involving Richardson.Richardson, 81, has largely dropped out of view in the past two years. The turning point came when the league’s owners voted to let the Rams move from St. Louis to Los Angeles in 2016. He had recommended that the Oakland Raiders and the San Diego Chargers be allowed to move there. (The Chargers moved to Los Angeles this year.)“We should not manage to avoid criticism, but work passionately to provide positive outcomes,” Richardson wrote. “Nothing less should be expected or accepted.”Richardson has endured several health scares. He has overcome prostate cancer, and he had a heart transplant in 2009.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS