AdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — If one believes James B. Comey’s account of his encounters with President Trump, it could present a prosecutable case of obstruction of justice, several former prosecutors said Thursday.Specifically, according to Mr. Comey’s testimony, after he met that day with Mr. Trump and others in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump ordered all the other officials out of the room — twice reiterating to lingerers, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, that they were to leave. Then, Mr. Comey said, Mr. Trump brought up Mr. Flynn, calling him a “good guy” and saying, “I hope you can let this go.”“I took it as a direction,” Mr. Comey testified Thursday. “I mean, the president of the United States, with me alone, saying, ‘I hope this’ — I took it as, This is what he wants me to do.”Senator Jim Risch, Republican of Idaho, responded to Mr. Comey, “You may have taken it as a direction, but that’s not what he said.” Mr. Risch also suggested that no one had ever been prosecuted for obstruction of justice based on saying, “I hope.”“We have examples all the time in criminal law of people saying things only slightly subtly, where everyone understands what is meant — ‘Nice pair of legs you got there; shame if something happened to them,’” Mr. Buell said.“The president never, in form or substance, directed or suggested that Mr. Comey stop investigating anyone, including suggesting that Mr. Comey ‘let Flynn go,’” Mr. Kasowitz said.But defense lawyers could still argue for a benign interpretation, Mr. Mariotti said, and he suggested that while the publicly available evidence was sufficient for a United States attorney’s office to consider bringing an obstruction case if it involved a business executive or a low-level political figure, the higher stakes of going after a president would give prosecutors pause. They would recognize, he said, “that it’s a hard case and you might lose.”“Based only on what we know now in public, a reasonable prosecutor might bring this case against an ordinary person,” he said. “But a prudent prosecutor would want more facts before bringing this case against a president.”“My supposition as a prosecutor would be that Flynn has something on the president,” she added. “You will recall that Flynn asked for immunity, saying that he has a story to tell. Perhaps the president believed that ending the investigation meant that Flynn would never tell that story. I assume investigators will be delving into this, as it is clearly relevant to whether the president acted with a corrupt intent in trying to derail the Flynn investigation.”Adam Liptak contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS