AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseWelcome to the kinder, gentler Uber.The action in London is the first major public test for Mr. Khosrowshahi, the former chief executive of the online travel service Expedia, who succeeded the embattled Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick in August. While it may be premature to compare him with Mr. Kalanick after he has been in the job for only a few weeks, his tone offers a marked contrast. So far, Mr. Khosrowshahi “has been careful, tactful and humble, all quite a contrast from his predecessor,” said Mark Mahaney, the chief internet analyst at RBC Capital Markets. “He’s not confrontational.”No one expects Uber’s reputation for being brash, aggressive and, at times, immature to change overnight, but Mr. Khosrowshahi’s softer approach appears to be bearing fruit. Sadiq Khan, the popular mayor of London, said this week that he welcomed Mr. Khosrowshahi’s apology and that he would encourage transport regulators to meet with him.Uber and Mr. Khosrowshahi declined to comment.And as anxieties mount in London over the British withdrawal from the European Union, even Mr. Khosrowshahi’s reference to the city as a “great global city” was a not-so-subtle reminder that, without Uber, it wouldn’t be.“London Uber is basically staffed by white people from Goldman Sachs in their 30s,” he said. “They’re slick City people executing a business plan that originated in San Francisco. They totally drank the Travis Kool-Aid. They just saw the backlash against Uber as a natural part of disruption and couldn’t see that there might be some legitimate objections.”That’s not to say that the transport regulators’ stated objections — under the rubric that Uber isn’t “fit and proper” to hold a transport license — are entirely what the dispute is about.As Uber has pointed out, the regulators’ specific concerns, about failing to report potentially criminal acts to the police and whether its medical and background checks on drivers were adequate, could have been resolved relatively easily. The company insists that it complies with all London regulations but is open to negotiations and revisions.Many people in London — and in the rest of Europe — view giant American technology companies, and Uber in particular, with intense suspicion and resentment. Even Mr. Khosrowshahi’s apology and conciliatory comments drew scathing retorts on Twitter. (“They’re just going to pout, lie, and try to find ways to cheat the system like they always do,” was one.)Mr. Khosrowshahi has “been wise to approach this as both a political and business issue,” Mr. Mahaney said. “As head of Expedia, Dara had to deal with many disagreements with local governments over taxes and other policies, especially San Francisco and New York City. They all got resolved, generally without any public, aggressive confrontations.”And Uber has prominent defenders in London. Britain’s minister for London, Greg Hands, criticized Mr. Khan, saying that banning Uber would “cause massive inconvenience to millions of Londoners, showing that the mayor is closed to business and innovation.”“I don’t have that much sympathy for the black cab fleet,” Mr. Knight said. “You respect their craft, and they’re a skilled group of people. But you pay through the nose. They’re nearly all white males. They gripe all the time about immigration. The only reason I’d take one is if I was in the middle of London at rush hour and someone else was paying.”In any event, banning Uber in London is unlikely to return the city to what some consider the more genteel status quo that existed before the company’s arrival. Although Uber is currently the only ride-hailing operation licensed there, its rival Lyft is eager to expand internationally and enter the London market. Lyft officials have met with transport regulators in the past year.“I’d say the genie is out of the bottle,” Mr. Mahaney said. “The regulators may be able to tilt the playing field a little, but ride-sharing is a fact of life and I’d say a benefit of life in all major cities.”Both he and Mr. Mahaney predicted that Uber’s large dose of humility would help. In the end, “to be world class, London needs ride-sharing,” Mr. Knight said. “Uber will survive, clean up its act, and Khan will declare victory.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS