AdvertisementSupported byIt would seem unlikely that a single state legislative seat in Westchester County could hold the key to Democrats scoring a government trifecta in Albany, an alignment in which one party controls the governorship, as well as both houses of the Legislature.But some political experts say the 37th Senate District may be that pivotal.Now, Mr. Latimer’s former Senate seat is up for grabs, and the special election to replace him has once again assumed heightened implications.While the Assembly has an overwhelming Democratic majority, the Senate is controlled by Republicans, thanks to a power-sharing arrangement between Republicans and several Democrats.The Bronx seat should be a slam dunk for Democrats, but political pundits say the Westchester seat — long held by Democrats — is less certain: In 2012, Senate Republicans redrew the district map. Doug Colety, chairman of the Westchester Republican County Committee, said: “The district is much better for Republicans than it was in the past.”Democrats have a different view. “It’s a marvel of modern technology how gerrymandered you can make the New York Senate map,” said Evan Stavisky, a partner in the Parkside Group, a political consulting firm that represents the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee.So far, three candidates have stepped forward to run for the Westchester Senate seat, which covers diverse cities like Yonkers to the south, affluent suburbs like Larchmont and more rural towns like Bedford.The county’s Republican Party, meanwhile, has yet to name a candidate. Mr. Colety said that he hoped to nominate someone in early February. Neither of the two declared Republicans — Daniel Schorr and Sarmad Khojasteh — have held office, a fact that Ms. Mayer, 64, seized on. “I’ve been in the world of Albany, and I say it in a positive way because I know how to get things done,” she said.A longtime resident of White Plains, Mr. Schorr, 44, said his experience would help him ferret out corruption in Albany. “I think our state is greatly overtaxed and corruption is part of that,” said Mr. Schorr, a graduate of Harvard Law School. “Every month for the next six months, there is a major corruption trial occurring in New York State.”Among his ideas are 529-style savings plans for small businesses, and tax breaks for investors who finance start-ups. “If there is a dishwasher or mechanic or carpenter who wants to be a first-time small business owner,” he said, “we can promote policies to allow them to become the restaurateur, the body shop owner, the contractor.”Were Ms. Mayer to prevail in a special election, there are a number of potential complications with the plan for Democratic reunification; there is a provision, for example, that allows each side to approve the other’s deputies.And even if the two Democratic factions successfully merged, it would technically still leave the party shy of a 32-seat majority, because of Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat. He is not part of the Independent Democratic Conference, but has nonetheless caucused with Republicans since his election in 2012, saying it favors his constituents.After the deal was announced last fall, Mr. Felder said he could be persuaded to join Democrats, or stay with Republicans, if either side embraces a plan to put armed guards at every New York City school.Meanwhile, Republicans in the Senate seem unlikely to cede control without a struggle. Last fall they suggested that they could retain power through 2018, citing rules they say would prevent a change in leadership without a 38-seat majority.Mike Murphy, a spokesman for Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the leader of the mainline Democratic coalition, scoffed at the notion. “The chamber is made up of 63 members and clearly 32 members is a majority,” he said. “I would hope that the Republicans would not subvert democracy by denying the fundamental principle of majority rule.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS