AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseOne of my fondest childhood memories is of my family’s annual holiday trip to St. Louis to see the department store windows. I was transfixed by the corner window at Famous-Barr, where model trains wound their way through a labyrinth of tunnels and bridges in a snow-covered mountain landscape.Even after a decades-long decline of America’s urban centers as shopping meccas, New York remains a redoubt of holiday tradition. The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade officially kicks off the Christmas shopping season, and elaborate department store windows are still a major draw for tourists.“It would be a public relations disaster to eliminate them,” he said. But, he added, “I suspect they’ll quietly cut back, spend less, become less elaborate. And they’ll disappear when the companies themselves eventually disappear.”It’s hard to fault struggling retailers for trying to recoup some of the cost, but part of the windows’ allure has always been that they were pure fantasies untainted by any overtly commercial appeal. Those days seem to have passed.At Lord & Taylor, this year’s windows are co-branded by the Hallmark Channel, which is promoting its “Countdown to Christmas” holiday programming. Farther uptown, the windows at Saks Fifth Avenue not only carry the Mastercard logo, but the “Snow White” theme on display is basically a plug for the Walt Disney Company, which said it had entered a “promotional partnership’’ with Saks for the windows. (To both stores’ credit, there are no paid product placements in the windows, a trend that has infected some other holiday windows in the city.)The crowds jostling to see Lord & Taylor’s displays used to be so large that ropes were deployed to maintain an orderly flow. But when I stopped by this week, the pedestrians on Fifth Avenue were rushing by, and few paused to take a look. No ropes were needed. Down the street, the repurposed B. Altman department store, which now houses the City University of New York’s Graduate Center, sat like a hulking ghost of Christmas past.Still, there was plenty of greenery and lots of twinkling lights on the Lord & Taylor facade, and holiday music wafted over the sidewalk. The windows themselves were charming, although less elaborate than the ones I remembered from years past. Saks also featured an impressive full-facade light show after dusk. Its windows were attracting somewhat larger crowds during the day when I stopped by.Tiffany Bourre, a spokeswoman for Hudson’s Bay, the parent company of Lord & Taylor and Saks, assured me the sale of the Lord & Taylor building to WeWork would not affect the window displays in the future, and that the company was committed to the store’s “rich history” of holiday traditions. After the sale, Lord & Taylor will still occupy some of the building. She said that the holiday windows and light show at Saks would continue “for years to come.”Hudson’s Bay does not break out the cost of the window displays, but they are expensive. Ms. Bourre said the Lord & Taylor windows were created by nearly 75 artists, craftsmen and engineers who put in more than 35,000 hours on the project. She did not try to justify the expense in purely economic terms. “The holiday windows are considered a gift to the city,” she said.Mr. Cohen said he got “all kinds of grief” from executives at Federated Department Stores after he spent over $100,000 to renovate the holiday windows at the flagship Lazarus department store in downtown Columbus, Ohio, in the early 1990s; at the time he was chairman and chief executive of Lazarus, then a division of Federated.The window displays and holiday traditions “were never overtly commercial,” said Jan Whitaker, the author of “Service and Style: How the American Department Store Fashioned the Middle Class,” and other books about department stores. “In their heyday, they did a lot of things that weren’t directly linked to sales.”The goal was to attract people to the stores with amenities like tearooms, restaurants, fashion shows and even nurseries. But the rise of Walmart and other discount chains in the mid-1960s, Ms. Whitaker said, “drove a stake into the heart of the downtown stores.” As shoppers focused on price above all else and old-line stores moved to the suburbs, she added, “The department stores dispensed with just about everything — the displays, the decorations, the free gift wrap and alterations, the free delivery.”It now seems ironic, Ms. Whitaker continued, that department stores were once criticized for overcommercializing Christmas with their window displays. (A religious revival in the mid-1950s, she said, prompted a short-lived focus on angels, carolers and manger scenes.) “The department stores created a magical sense of occasion,” she said. “Families came and brought their children. Years later, they wouldn’t remember the gifts they got in any given year, but they remembered the windows. Those children became future customers.”Shopping now, she said, is “not an experience.”“It’s just about buying something at the lowest price,” she said. “ I find it kind of depressing, but there’s no point in wallowing in nostalgia.”Mr. Cohen agreed. “We’ve crossed the Rubicon into gross commercialism,” he said. “There used to be an almost spiritual sense of kinship that gift-giving and gathering together enhanced, and the store displays and marketing tried to embrace that. Now the holiday is just the trigger for an extreme state of acquisitiveness. Holiday décor and atmosphere just get in the way of that.”For holiday purists, it’s an ominous sign that traditional department stores are getting battered by the stock market. As of this week, Hudson’s Bay shares were down nearly 20 percent for the year. Macy’s stock was down about 28 percent. Both companies have attracted activist investors who have been pushing to use their real estate holdings to raise money. They have shown scant interest in maintaining expensive holiday traditions.By comparison, shares in Best Buy, one of the few success stories among brick-and-mortar retailers, have gained nearly 56 percent this year. Best Buy has withstood the combined onslaught of Amazon and Walmart by focusing relentlessly on price, product selection, technical support and internet sales and marketing. It spends almost nothing on traditional holiday attractions.A visit to the new Nordstrom Rack store just south of Herald Square may be a vision of Christmas future. Under the glare of unadorned florescent lights, it might as well have been January.“I can’t possibly imagine these traditions ever coming back,” Ms. Whitaker said.The Famous-Barr store I visited as a child was rebranded after Macy’s bought its parent company, the May Company, in 2005, and Macy’s closed the flagship downtown location in 2013. The holiday train window, with its seven passenger and freight trains and 300 feet of track, had been maintained since 1988 by a group of local model railroad enthusiasts, the American Flyer “S” Gaugers of St. Louis. After the Famous-Barr store closed, the group moved the display to the National Museum of Transportation, in Kirkwood, Mo., where it is now the centerpiece of a holiday train exhibit.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byFor more than two decades R. Kelly, the multiplatinum R&B idol repeatedly accused of sexual misconduct, has outrun his reputation. In the age of #MeToo, it may finally be catching up to him.In a statement from and addressed to women of color, Time’s Up wrote: “The scars of history make certain that we are not interested in persecuting anyone without just cause. With that said, we demand appropriate investigations and inquiries into the allegations of R. Kelly’s abuse made by women of color and their families for over two decades now.”“This is starting to feel like a success,” Oronike Odeleye, a founder of the #MuteRKelly campaign, said in an interview on Monday. “Having Time’s Up amplify it, support it — this community, this village is stepping in and demanding that these things change.”The Time’s Up letter cited RCA Records, a division of Sony Music that has released R. Kelly’s last four albums; Ticketmaster, a division of the mega-promoter Live Nation, which sells tickets to his concerts; Spotify and Apple Music, the popular streaming services; and the Greensboro Coliseum Complex, a venue scheduled to host the singer this month in North Carolina. (RCA and Apple declined to comment. Spotify, Ticketmaster and the Greensboro Coliseum did not respond to requests for comment.)Representatives for Mr. Kelly replied in a statement on Monday. “R. Kelly supports the pro-women goals of the Time’s Up movement,” they wrote. “We understand criticizing a famous artist is a good way to draw attention to those goals — and in this case, it is unjust and off-target.”Calling the campaign “a greedy, conscious and malicious conspiracy to demean him, his family and the women with whom he spends his time,” the statement continued: “R. Kelly’s music is a part of American and African-American culture that should never — and will never — be silenced. Since America was born, black men and women have been lynched for having sex or for being accused of it. We will vigorously resist this attempted public lynching of a black man who has made extraordinary contributions to our culture.”After years of touring and new music from R. Kelly that passed without much incident, interest in the allegations against the singer picked up again last summer after a series of articles by the longtime Chicago music journalist Jim DeRogatis.The articles last year also resurfaced claims about R. Kelly — such as the brief marriage to his musical protégé, Aaliyah, in 1994, when she was 15 and he was 27 — which, when combined with the new information, galvanized Ms. Odeleye, an Atlanta resident, to start what would become #MuteRKelly.“After reading the history and realizing he was doing it in my backyard, I remember sitting at my computer and feeling furious and overwhelmed,” she said. “I decided to start a petition to get him off the radio. If the police can’t seem to arrest this man, we as a community can at least say we’re not going to give him our money.” (The Fulton County District Attorney’s Office in Georgia said it was not currently investigating Mr. Kelly over any allegations.)Ms. Odeleye soon joined forces with a local activist, Kenyette Barnes, who helped to organize local petitions and protests wherever R. Kelly had concerts scheduled. “He is a man of power — the king of R&B,” Ms. Barnes said. “You don’t become the king without a very strong fan base and support system. We wanted to dismantle that.”Ten concerts were called off, and while promoters cited various reasons including low ticket sales, Ms. Odeleye and Ms. Barnes said they had no doubt that their protests had worked. And within months the women’s mission began to dovetail with the growing chorus of those saying #MeToo, and momentum for #MuteRKelly picked up. A BBC documentary that aired in March, “R Kelly: Sex, Girls and Videotapes,” added to the growing discontent.“Within the African-American community, unfortunately, the issue of child sexual abuse is very, very taboo,” Ms. Odeleye said. “We have a tendency to try to separate the child from the abuser, but we will not kick the dangerous person out of homes, out of our communities. That’s just not good enough.”Trevian Kutti, a former spokeswoman for the singer, confirmed on Monday that she and a personal assistant, Diana Copeland, were no longer affiliated with him, citing only “unfortunate circumstances.” Still, Ms. Kutti spoke admiringly about the singer.“I am no longer successfully able to represent Mr. Robert Kelly,” she wrote in an email. “Mr. Kelly is ‘The World’s Greatest.’ I am grateful to have had the experience of representing him.”Linda Mensch, a lawyer who recently represented the singer, said she resigned in February but declined to comment further.Despite the rash of accusations, Mr. Kelly is not known to be facing any investigations for sexual abuse. Susan E. Loggans, a lawyer who has negotiated at least three settlements with women who said they were victimized by the singer, said that criminal prosecution continued to seem unlikely.“I feel that since he was already tried, already acquitted,” she said, referring to the 2008 case, “that state’s attorneys are reluctant to do it. It costs millions of dollars, would drag on for a long period of time and there is a general skepticism about whether it would be successful.”“If he got acquitted next time, nobody would ever have a chance,” Ms. Loggans said. “Prosecution is very hesitant to do that over again.”For now, Mr. Kelly appears most concerned with the state of his live concert business — a reliable revenue stream for any artist of his hit-making caliber. In a video posted to Twitter on Sunday, he insisted that he would be performing on May 11 in North Carolina, and he questioned why his Chicago appearance was scrapped.“I’ve never heard of a show being canceled because of rumors,” he said, “but I guess there’s a first time for everything.”“It ain’t on me,” he added.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementRupert Murdoch, the media mogul who is executive chairman of 21st Century Fox, is one of President Trump’s closest allies and advisers. Fox News has been the president’s most reliable media champion. Mr. Murdoch and the president have each publicly described the other as “my good friend.”Because AT&T and Time Warner aren’t direct competitors, and the suit was such a break with Justice Department tradition, it gave rise to speculation that the real motive was to punish CNN, the Time Warner-owned Trump punching bag.AdvertisementThe $52.4 billion Disney-Fox deal, in which Disney is acquiring Fox’s venerable movie studio and the bulk of its other entertainment assets, poses the opposite problem: 21st Century Fox is controlled by the Murdoch family.AdvertisementEven though antitrust decisions are supposed to be independent of political influence, Mr. Trump didn’t hesitate to weigh in when the deal was announced. “I know that the president spoke with Rupert Murdoch earlier today, congratulated him on the deal and thinks that, to use one of the president’s favorite words, that this could be a great thing for jobs,” the White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters.“It looks bad to me,” said Christopher L. Sagers, an antitrust professor at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law.Larry Downes, an antitrust expert and a fellow at the Georgetown McDonough School of Business, agreed. “The government’s theory in Time Warner very much applies to Fox and Disney,” he said. If the government “doesn’t challenge this, it will look very weird,” he added. “But I’m not sure appearances matter to this administration.”“I have never been instructed by the White House on this or any other transaction under review by the antitrust division,” he said of the AT&T case.That’s unlikely to stop speculation about his division’s handling of the latest blockbuster. Antitrust experts told me that in many ways the Disney-Fox deal raises even more antitrust questions than does the combination of AT&T and Time Warner. That’s because it’s both a merger of direct competitors — a so-called horizontal merger, which typically get close scrutiny — and has some of the same vertical elements that caused the Justice Department to try to block the AT&T-Time Warner merger.Whether a combination of the Fox film and television studios with Disney’s entertainment arm would raise red flags under Justice Department guidelines depends on how the government defines the market. The deal would reduce the number of Hollywood studios to five from six. Last year, Disney’s studio accounted for 26.4 percent of the domestic theatrical box office, the largest share, and Fox was third, with 12.9 percent. Although the combined studios would have had close to 40 percent of the market in 2016, that’s typically not enough to run afoul of the department’s merger guidelines, Mr. Sagers pointed out, unless the government decides to define the market differently.AdvertisementIf the market is as narrow as films about superheroes, and Disney gains control of Fox’s “X-Men” franchise, that would almost surely trigger concerns.There are more serious antitrust issues about Fox’s regional sports networks, given ESPN’s dominance of cable sports. If that market is measured by cable sports revenue, the Disney-owned ESPN is so dominant that nearly any acquisition of another cable sports provider, even Fox’s relatively small regional networks, would trigger antitrust review.“From a horizontal perspective, sports is the main issue,” said Scott Hemphill, a law professor and antitrust expert at New York University School of Law.If the Justice Department really wanted to be aggressive, it might also invoke the words of former Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black, who wrote in a landmark opinion, “The widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under terms of the proposed deal, Fox shareholders would own about 25 percent of Disney in an all-stock transaction. Given the concentrated market for cable news, a combination of Fox News and Disney’s ABC would most likely not have passed antitrust muster. But depending on how much influence the Murdochs are able to exert at Disney, the family might achieve much the same objective, perhaps with a board seat, or, as some have speculated, if James Murdoch joins Disney as an executive and even becomes a potential successor to the Disney chief executive, Robert Iger.Such speculation may not be all that far-fetched. “Reports suggest that James Murdoch is apparently in line for a senior management role within Disney as part of the deal,” said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst for Cowen & Co. in a note to clients Thursday.Mr. Iger said during a conference call Thursday that James Murdoch’s future role, if any, hasn’t been decided.Mr. Hemphill, the law professor and antitrust expert, pointed to an emerging antitrust doctrine called common ownership, which looks beyond the formality of separate companies to examine who actually exerts control.All those concerns are based on traditional antitrust review standards. But since the case against AT&T and Time Warner was filed, those standards have been anything but traditional.AdvertisementVertical mergers like that of AT&T and Time Warner — AT&T buys content from Time Warner, but doesn’t compete directly with it — used to be approved almost routinely, albeit often with conditions. No longer. “We’re in a topsy-turvy antitrust world,” Mr. Downes said.One of the government’s concerns in its effort to block the AT&T deal, according to its complaint, is the risk that AT&T would withhold Time Warner content from rivals like Netflix, thus hurting consumers.But Disney, as it prepares to start its own direct-to-consumer Netflix rival, is already withholding some content, and has said it would withhold much more as existing agreements expire. It will almost surely pull 21st Century Fox content, like “X Men,” the planned “Avatar” sequels and TV shows like “The Simpsons” and “The Americans,” and offer them on its own service.Mr. Downes said he doesn’t see how the Justice Department would distinguish between the two deals, should it approve the Fox-Disney transaction.How Mr. Delrahim and the antitrust division handle the Fox-Disney review remains to be seen, of course. But whatever he decides, the shadow of Mr. Murdoch will loom large.“I hesitate to make any predictions about Trump and what he’ll do,” Mr. Sagers said. “But there’s a long tradition that the White House shouldn’t get involved in these decisions.”He said he was “reluctant to believe” that Mr. Delrahim would allow politics or Mr. Trump’s friendship with Mr. Murdoch to influence his decision — “but maybe I’m being naïve.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.When the Harvard Business School was founded in 1908, the first entirely graduate-level professional business program in the country was described by the future Harvard president Abbott Lawrence Lowell as a “great” but “delicate experiment.” Today the school is indisputably great, but hardly delicate. It accepted just 12 percent of nearly 10,000 M.B.A. applicants in 2016. Eighty-nine percent of those who were accepted attended, which means that Harvard remains the overwhelming first choice among graduate schools of business, despite occasional rankings that put Stanford, Yale or Northwestern ahead of it. There are more than 76,000 living Harvard M.B.A. alumni, 33 percent of whom live outside the United States, forming what is very likely the most potent network of any graduate school.The marriage of Harvard’s prestige and intellectual pedigree to overtly moneymaking pursuits has yielded an institution that not only teaches the fundamentals of business education but also provides its soon-to-be-wealthy graduates with “unrivaled opportunity,” and has become a “money machine unto itself,” as Duff McDonald puts it in his sweeping survey of the school’s history and influence.But how and why that might be the case isn’t really what interests McDonald, the author of previous books about McKinsey, the consulting firm, and JPMorgan’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon. In “The Golden Passport,” he’s determined to call the Harvard Business School to account, citing its founding doctrine, which was to develop “a heightened sense of responsibility among businessmen” (and eventually women) who “will handle their current business problems in socially constructive ways.” In that regard, McDonald is scathing in his critique: Harvard Business School has not only “proven an enormous failure,” but its very success has made it positively “dangerous.”He drives home the point in chapter after chapter, picking up steam in more recent decades: Harvard, he maintains, provided the ideological underpinnings for the junk-bond-induced takeover mania and resulting scandals of the 1980s; the corporate scandals of the 2000s; the egregious increase in the pay gap between chief executives and ordinary employees; the real estate mortgage bubble and ensuing financial crisis; even the election of Donald Trump. In McDonald’s view, the school has contributed to pretty much every bad thing that has happened in American business and the economy in the last century. In the wake of whatever scandal or financial collapse or recession to which it has contributed, it wipes its hands, distances itself and still has the nerve to put forth its experts as the solution to problems.In virtually every instance, McDonald contends, Harvard has obsessively pursued money, sending a disproportionate number of its graduates to consulting firms beginning in the 1950s (it was all but synonymous with McKinsey), to Wall Street in the 1980s and to entrepreneurial start-ups once initial public offerings became the rage in the 1990s — and provided intellectual justifications for its actions. Much of that wealth found its way back to the school itself. Its professors earn enormous sums as consultants to businesses populated by their former students, who also give generously to their alma mater: Its endowment stood at $3.3 billion by 2015, a dedicated portion of the university’s enormous $32.7 billion.McDonald’s criticism of Michael Jensen, now an emeritus professor, is especially withering. As he sees it, Jensen bears major responsibility for the rapacious hostile takeovers and the obsession with stock prices and short-term results that led to the Enron and WorldCom scandals, as well as for the emergence of outlandishly high chief executive pay.Jensen came to the business school in 1984, just as the junk-bond-fueled takeover boom was gaining steam, and he became a full-time faculty member in 1989. Undeniably one of the most influential business theorists of modern times, he advocated an “agency” theory of management in which management’s sole duty was to maximize shareholder value. This upended the long-held “stakeholder” model, in which management was seen as having broader obligations to a corporation’s workers, customers and communities.Jensen’s theories had simplicity and consistency: If all that matters is shareholder value, then hostile takeovers, leveraged buyouts and other forms of financial engineering are fine as long as they boost share prices, no matter that battalions of workers have to be fired and community relations damaged. Jensen also championed share-based executive compensation on the grounds that no matter how much executives were paid, shareholders benefited. This was an idea that swept corporate America. McDonald notes that in 1992, the C.E.O.s of Fortune 500 firms made an average of $2.7 million a year. By 2000, the average was $14 million.Just about every premise of the “agency” model, McDonald says, has now been punctured, but only long after the damage has been done. An obsession with stock prices and short-term results was the motive for many of the accounting scandals of the 2000s, which were designed to prop up share prices, and as a result, high executive pay. Even Jensen eventually had to concede that the liberal use of stock options as executive compensation had become “managerial heroin.”Jensen is just one of many examples of the insidious relationship between Harvard Business School theory and real-world calamities in ”The Golden Passport,” but it seems worth asking: Is McDonald’s broadside fair? Apart from a few brief quotations from his published work, we don’t hear from Jensen himself, or any of the other still-living culprits McDonald identifies. It’s hard to fault McDonald, who reports that Harvard Business School “shut me out entirely” when he sought cooperation, and pretty much shut down everyone who works there. That seems a shame. McDonald insists he isn’t “anti-business-school” (he attended Wharton), nor is he “anti-wealth.” Nonetheless, he says he found the rejection “liberating.”But I missed a greater sense of balance. It doesn’t seem fair, to take one major example, to blame Harvard for the recent financial crisis. While their actions remain a subject of spirited debate, the H.B.S. graduates assembled by McDonald — starting with former President George W. Bush, former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson and former S.E.C. Chairman Christopher Cox — are credited by many with mitigating the damage and saving the country from an even worse catastrophe. To take just one counterexample, the young former Goldman Sachs investment banker Fabrice Tourre, one of the few Wall Street figures actually found guilty of civil fraud for his role in the kind of complex mortgage deals that contributed to the crisis, is a graduate of France’s École Centrale and Stanford University. (France’s prestigious “Grandes Écoles” — not H.B.S. — appear to have generated a disproportionate number of the financial engineers who unwittingly helped cause the crisis.) Given the large number of Harvard Business grads in high-ranking executive positions, it’s inevitable that many would be ensnared in what turned into a global catastrophe. It’s a shame that some of them didn’t see the looming disaster and sound an alarm. But hardly anyone did, including graduates of every other business school.McDonald bookends his long and impressively researched account with a portrait of Casey Gerald, an African-American who delivered a 2014 Class Day speech that’s been viewed online over 200,000 times, and is featured on the school’s “Making a Difference” website. Gerald turned his back on a lucrative career in private equity to co-found a public interest organization to connect M.B.A. graduates with mission-driven businesses. This may suggest to some that it is hard to generalize about Harvard’s students, though McDonald isn’t stopped: He sees Gerald as one of a handful of “outliers,” the exception that proves the rule that most graduates are morally detached, single-minded fortune seekers.I suspect McDonald won’t be invited to campus anytime soon, but perhaps he should be: Agree with him or not, he deserves credit for raising questions that every business school needs to be asking. It’s hard to quarrel with his concluding plea: “H.B.S. should — and can — play a part in helping more people who think about business rediscover a purpose other than profit.” As he puts it: “It needs to graduate more people who are motivated to solve problems, and fewer people who create them.”James B. Stewart writes Common Sense, a weekly business column, for The Times and is the author of nine books, including “Den of Thieves” and “DisneyWar.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byLawmakers from both chambers are now headed to conference, where they will try to work out their differences and emerge with a final bill that can be passed by the House and Senate and then sent to President Trump’s desk by Christmas.Getting a bill signed into law by Mr. Trump remains a top priority of Republican lawmakers, and momentum to get something to his desk quickly remains.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said that lawmakers were working on the bill “so that it comes out very beautifully.”“I call it ‘the mixer,’ he said. “It’s a conference where everyone gets together and they pick all the good things and get rid of the things they don’t like.”And, below, we outline some of the top issues that must be resolved before the legislation can be signed into law.Senate lawmakers, in their bill, seeking additional revenue, brought back the corporate alternative minimum tax and reinstated a limited version of the alternative minimum tax for individuals. The House bill eliminated both versions of the alternative minimum tax.Together, the Senate changes are expected to raise about $173 billion over the next decade. But the possible reinstatement of the corporate alternative minimum tax is eliciting significant blowback from businesses, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing companies, technology companies and pharmaceutical companies, which say it would undermine their ability to use valuable tax credits.The reason: Both bills cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. But the corporate alternative minimum tax is also set at 20 percent. It is devised to ensure that companies cannot use loopholes to avoid paying taxes and requires that companies calculate their taxes under both the corporate rate and the alternative minimum rate and pay the greater amount.By lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent but keeping the alternative minimum tax, Congress is essentially setting a 20 percent floor. Companies that try to use tax breaks to lower their effective tax rate, like the research and development tax credit, would still face the 20 percent alternative minimum tax, nullifying the value of incentives that are supposed to promote research.Lawmakers are scrambling to resolve the issue. While they could simply do away with the corporate alternative minimum tax, the Senate would then have to find additional revenue to ensure the legislation stays within the $1.5 trillion bucket that Congress has created for the tax cuts.One possible solution floating around is to increase the corporate tax rate to 22 percent, rather than 20 percent, which would raise more revenue. But that plan may not sit well with House Republicans, many of whom have been unwavering in their push to lower the rate to 20 percent.The House bill guts a number of itemized deductions while the Senate bill expands them.Mortgage interest deduction• House caps at $500,000; Senate retainsMedical expense deduction• House repeals; Senate expandsTeacher deduction for school supplies; graduate student tuition waver; student loan interest deduction• House repeals all; Senate expands or retains allThe Senate bill allows owners of businesses organized as pass-throughs to deduct 23 percent of their business income.The House bill sets a new 25 percent tax on pass-through businesses and builds guardrails to prevent companies from exploiting the loophole.The Senate bill creates seven income tax brackets: 10 percent, 12 percent, 22 percent, 24 percent, 32 percent, 35 percent and 38.5 percent. Those brackets expire at the end of 2025.The House bill creates four income tax brackets: 12 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent and 39.6 percent. Those brackets are permanent.The House bill ultimately kills the estate tax, which Republicans refer to as the death tax, because it is a tax on wealthy estates that are left to heirs.The Senate bill applies the death tax to fewer people by doubling the exemption to levels to $11 million for individuals and $22 million for couples, but it does not kill the tax.The Senate bill leaves the Johnson Amendment untouched.Repealing the amendment has long been a key priority of the religious right, which views the ban as an example of government hostility to religion in the public square. But such a repeal is opposed by thousands of religious and nonprofit leaders, who warn that it could blur the line between charity and politics.Mr. Trump has pledged to repeal the 1954 ban, and religious groups have said they expect it to be included in the final legislation.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAt the same time, that’s not a complete picture.A 2013 study of red and blue America, conducted well before the seismic events of the last two years, sheds additional light on the Republican electorate and provides a more complicated understanding of contemporary conservatism.The most conservative and most Republican of the three psychological regions — which Rentfrow labels “Cluster 1: Friendly and Conventional” — extends across the northern tier of the United States from Montana to Michigan, down through the Midwest to almost all of the South for a total of 26 states. The accompanying map shows the region in shades of purple.Rentfrow found that the Cluster 1 region isless affluent, has fewer highly educated residents, and is less innovative compared with states in the other regions. States in this region also appeared to have higher levels of social capital and less social tolerance compared with states in other regions. Moreover, friendly and conventional states were more politically conservative and Protestant compared with other regions.Rentfrow and his co-authors write that the regionis defined by moderately high levels of extroversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, moderately low neuroticism, and very low opennessand thatthis configuration of traits portrays the sort of person who is sociable, considerate, dutiful, and traditional.I asked a number of experts in political psychology what they thought about the Rentfrow paper, and their answers ran the gamut from those who support a more empathetic portrayal of Republican voters to those who are adamant in their view that authoritarianism remains a dominant characteristic of those on the right.I started with Rentfrow himself. My question went as follows:Some research shows that Republicans, and Trump voters in particular, score high on measures of authoritarianism and on critical, if not hostile, views of African-Americans and immigrants. How does this fit with your finding that residents of the most Republican region are friendly, sociable and considerate?Rentfrow replied thatindividuals high in authoritarianism score low in openness. So in this sense, the patterns of results we find at the regional level are consistent.Many whites in the South, he argued, abide by an “honor culture.” As longas everyone is respectful and abides by the social norms, everyone is happy and agreeable. But when threats are made against one’s reputation or values, acts of violence and physical aggression are considered appropriate forms of retribution. In some ways, the profile we observe touches on the surface of this profile — the friendly and considerate aspect when all is well. But I think we’re now beginning to see more of the aggressive aspects. I think many people, perhaps especially in this region, have begun to feel threatened by the changes taking place in society and are reacting with anger.Stenner explained this seeming contradiction by noting thatit is a lot easier to be generous and considerate and civic-minded and invested in one’s community if one’s community is full of people much like oneself. The kinds of behaviors we get out of authoritarians depend critically on how and where they have drawn the boundaries of “us” and “them.” They can be very attentive to “us,” but also tend to be very particular about whom “us” includes.John Jost, a professor of psychology and politics at N.Y.U., expands upon the implications of the word “conscientiousness” in describing red state voters:Conscientiousness is correlated with measures of racism, sexism, homophobia, prejudice, authoritarianism, social dominance, and system justification. I suspect that this personality factor has more to do with a need for order or desire for rule-following, which can easily take an authoritarian turn, than other aspects of conscientiousness that we might associate with, say, honesty or integrity.In the opposite corner from Jost, Marc Hetherington, a political scientist at Vanderbilt and a co-author of the 2009 book “Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics,” said he has abandoned use of the word “authoritarian” because he views it as excessively pejorative. In place of authoritarian, Hetherington said he will now use the phrase “fixed worldview.”“The adherence to established traditions, what scholars derisively call conventionalism, is very much a characteristic of high conscientiousness,” Hetherington wrote:Whether you think this is good or bad probably depends on what you think of community norms. In my view, there is a lot of good to many of them. Fixed worldview people want to protect them.Hetherington added a cautionary note:Here is the problem though. If you are perceived as outside that community, the enforcement of those norms isn’t going to feel very good.Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U.’s Stern School of Business, raised a crucial if obvious point: Primary season Trump voters do not represent all Republican voters.We can’t really know, just on the basis of this paper, whether these traits apply to Trump voters. All we can know is that these traits are more common in states and regions that voted for Trump. It is possible that the people who most show the positively valenced personality traits did not have Trump as their first choice in the primary, but then, once the general election came around, most of them voted for the Republican candidate, which is what partisans do in our two party system with very little party switching.Matt Motyl, a political psychologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, argued in an email that in the general election, thetypical Trump voter is not a raging, screaming white nationalist; the typical Trump voter is not much different from the typical Romney, McCain, or Bush voter. They are just ordinary Republicans.There is, however, a subset of Trump supporters “who are extraordinarily vocal in their intolerance and white nationalism,” according to Motyl. These activists have become “the template of the stereotype of Trump voters,” he wrote. “As is the case for many stereotypes,” he added, “there is a grain of truth, but the grain of truth is just that — a grain.”In fact, authoritarian voters with a sense of besieged white identity are more than a “grain” in the Republican electorate.And the clout of the authoritarian, white identity wing of the Republican Party is such that Trump is governing to please this wing first and foremost.From his apocalyptic threats to Kim Jong-un to his call for the firing of protesting N.F.L. players, from his pardon of Joe Arpaio to his defense of pro-Nazi protesters in Charlottesville, Trump has remained the leader of hard-right, white America.This strategy won him the presidency in 2016 when millions of non-authoritarian white Republicans — sympathetic, kind, affectionate, conscientiousness, persevering, thorough and reliable — made a pact with the devil and chose party loyalty over conscience. Who’s to say it won’t work again?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementA last-minute scramble to shore up support from wavering Republican senators injected significant changes into the Senate tax bill.The overhaul will still cut taxes on individuals and businesses, but the changes will reduce some benefits while sweetening others. Some of the provisions lawmakers wanted will cost additional money, prompting the need to find offsets.Here’s a look at the main changes that are expected to be included in the Senate’s revised bill to be voted on later today.AdvertisementThe A.M.T. was created to limit the amount of deductions available to the richest Americans. Over the years, though, inflation has eaten away at its effectiveness — as has the exclusion of interest and dividend income, which insulates the richest Americans.AdvertisementBut it brings in a lot of revenue — as much as $1 trillion over the next decade — so lawmakers are now planning to reduce, rather than repeal, the tax. The Senate bill will increase the individual exemption amounts that taxpayers using the A.M.T. are entitled to and will increase the taxable income level at which those exemption amounts begin to phase out. Both moves will provide some relief to those whose income and use of deductions requires them to use the A.M.T., but it is far different from the House bill, which eliminates the tax as part of its tax code “simplification” effort.The Senate bill also retains the corporate A.M.T., which was slated for elimination in both the Senate and House bill. Together, the changes are expected to raise about $173 billion over the next decade.The Senate bill is expected to allow taxpayers to deduct up to $10,000 in state and local property taxes paid, a provision in unison with the House bill.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The original Senate bill called for elimination of the state and local tax deduction, which is primarily used in high-tax, Democrat-leaning states. But Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, insisted on including the limited property tax deduction, which will cost about $148 billion over a decade. That could ease one potential area of contention with the House bill.The Senate bill will sweeten the tax deduction for owners of businesses that are organized as pass-throughs, meaning the business income is taxed at the individual owner’s tax rate.The change will cost the United States government $114 billion over a decade.AdvertisementHowever, the House bill eliminated the deduction altogether, so that will be one area of potential contention when the two chambers try to reconcile their versions. The cost of that change is unclear, as of now.The Senate bill increases the tax rate that companies will have to pay on foreign corporate profits. The “deemed repatriation” provision in the Senate will now subject untaxed foreign corporate profits to immediate taxation at a rate of 14 percent for cash holdings and 7 percent for noncash holdings. That is up from the original proposal of 10 percent and 5 percent and in line with the House version.The change is expected to bring in an additional $97 billion over a decade.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementVincent Scully, the Yale art historian whose lectures inspired students for more than 60 years and whose writings on architecture had a decisive influence on its practice in the last half of the 20th century, died on Thursday night at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 97.Yale University announced the death, giving the cause as complications of Parkinson’s disease.The author of books on Greek temples, Palladio’s villas and the American Indian pueblo, as well as many more on the architecture of modernism, Professor Scully treated the history of every culture and every period as if it were in continual dialogue with his own time. “Everything in the past is always waiting, waiting to detonate,” he once said.Exalted as a lecturer by generations of undergraduates at Yale, where he had taught since 1947, he retired in 1991 as Sterling professor emeritus of the history of art, only to return by popular demand the next year. He continued to give his renowned course “Introduction to the History of Art” until poor health forced him to cancel it before the 2009 fall semester.His lectures were theatrical pieces that commonly left his audience transported and the performer, in his Ivy League uniform of tie and tweed jacket, drained. He did not speak from notes, and students were not expected to take them. Multiple projectors flashed images on the screen in the darkened hall while he wielded a long pointer, the butt of which he would slam on the wooden floor to signal the operator (a coveted job among art history majors) to move to the next glass slide.AdvertisementHis flair for the dramatic was aided by a gift for the sonorous phrase — of Mies van der Rohe, he wrote, “His architecture cried on nobody’s lapel; it made perfect, technologically appropriate cages, and limpid volumes of air, and that was all” — or the biting put-down: He once dismissed the buildings of Kevin Roche as “paramilitary dandyism.”Unlike many academics, Professor Scully spoke out on issues of the day and was not afraid to change his mind. He was instrumental in promoting modernist doctrine and challenged the ossification of its legacy during the 1960s. To his chagrin, his rebellious open-mindedness became identified with postmodernism and its excesses.AdvertisementBoth Professor Scully and Mr. Venturi argued that irony, ornament, humor, insider historical references — a “multiplicity” of styles and forms — should be allowed back into architecture. Debunking modernist orthodoxies and beginning what became known as postmodernism — a word both men grew to loathe — the Scully piece also fought a rear-guard action against Mr. Venturi’s critics, accusing them of a “preoccupation with a rather prissily puristic aesthetic.”Professor Scully had himself held such views not so long before, and expressed shame at being slow to recognize the destruction of America’s cities in the name of urban renewal.“I didn’t pay any attention when Philip Johnson and John Lindsay tried to save Pennsylvania Station in 1963,” he once said, referring to the architect and the future mayor of New York City, who was a congressman at that time. “Like most modernists of that time, I didn’t think it was worth saving. Everything had to be new.”His 1969 book, “American Architecture and Urbanism,” tried to make amends. He spoke out against displacement of the poor to make room for wider highways, and he became an active critic of redevelopment in New Haven. His “Architecture: The Natural and the Manmade,” published in 1991, further chastised modernists for failing to respect the surrounding city and neighborhood — the context — in which a modernist structure might be built.In the 1990s he allied himself with New Urbanism, an international movement pioneered in the United States by two of his former students, Andrés Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk; it stressed the importance of the pedestrian and human-scale construction in maintaining a sense of community.Other critics hoped to shape opinion in their newspaper and magazine columns. Besides his books, Professor Scully had the classroom. “The most important students he ever had at Yale were the bankers and the lawyers who went on to support architecture,” Mr. Goldberger said. “He made them informed clients.”AdvertisementA product of New Haven public schools, including Hillhouse High School, Vincent entered Yale at age 16 on a full scholarship (the Depression had wrecked his father’s business) and majored in English.Disliking graduate school, he joined the Army Air Forces in 1940 but presently “washed out of pilot training,” as he put it, and joined the Marine Corps. On his return to Yale in 1946 his interests had turned to art history, specifically architecture.As a scholar, he first made his mark with “The Shingle Style: Architectural Theory and Design From Richardson to the Origins of Wright.” Submitted (under another title) as his Ph.D. thesis in 1949 and published as a book in 1955, his analysis found a continuity between the enormous “cottages” that McKim, Mead & White and others had built for upper-class clients in the 1870s and ’80s — powerful, volumetric forms clad in a skin of cedar shingles — and Frank Lloyd Wright’s early domestic architecture in the Midwest.“At that time, no one liked 19th-century architecture,” he said in a 1980 profile in The New Yorker. “My aim was to rehabilitate it. That’s what dissertations should do: bring back great areas of human experience that have been jettisoned.”By mapping out a coherent and glorious American past, Scully also invigorated those who wanted to succeed upon it. In the words of the historian and architect Robert A. M. Stern — another former Scully student who became the dean of the Yale School of Architecture — “What were just buildings became architecture.”Both Mr. Stern and Mr. Venturi were prompted by reading “The Shingle Style” to rethink their own stylistic approach and models.Drawing on his reading of Freud and Jung, Professor Scully was mindful that various societies had looked to architecture as places to cohabit with the divine. “The Earth, the Temple, and the Gods: Greek Sacred Architecture,” published in 1962, resulted from numerous walking trips around Greece during the 1950s, when he was in his 30s, a period he later called “the most intense and profound intellectual and spiritual experience of my life.”AdvertisementClassicists and archaeologists were generally scornful of his theories, though, and he never published a planned second volume.In 1975, car trips with his son around the American Southwest produced “Pueblo: Mountain, Village, Dance.” That he was attacked again by professionals in the field after its publication did not deter him from celebrating the unified view of the world and respect for the landscape shown by the Pueblo Indian.A passionate advocate for his favorite architects, Professor Scully often enlisted his commanding rhetoric to promote their work. In 1964, describing Paul Rudolph’s controversial Brutalist-style Art and Architecture Building (now the Paul Rudolph Hall), which opened at Yale in 1963, he declared:“This is the most dramatic entrance in the United States of America, bar none. It does not lead anywhere in particular, however, so tentatively pluralistic are the choices it offers. That is to say, movement from it to the left brings one rather indecisively into the exhibition area, movement right merely to the stairs and elevators that serve the other floors.”Among his many honors is an award that bears his name: the Vincent Scully Prize, established in 1999 by the National Building Museum in Washington and given for “exemplary practice, scholarship or criticism in architecture, historic preservation and urban design.” He received the National Medal of Arts in 2004.In addition to his emeritus position at Yale, Professor Scully was distinguished visiting professor at the University of Miami, where in his later years he rode out the New England winters.Professor Scully was married three times, to Nancy Keith, Marian LaFollette and the architectural historian Catherine Willis Lynn. She survives him, as do three sons, Daniel, Stephen and John; a daughter, Katherine Mary Scully; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.One of his last works, “Yale in New Haven: Architecture and Urbanism,” published in 2004 and written with Ms. Lynn, Mr. Goldberger and Eric Vogt, allowed Professor Scully to come full circle in his life. In the introduction he compared sunset at New Haven’s red East Rock to a “butte bursting up from Arizona to dominate the Connecticut shore.”As Mr. Goldberger says in “Vincent Scully: An Art Historian Among Architects,” a 2010 documentary about his mentor, “He has been defined by New Haven, but in a way that is not provincial at all.”Advertisement“He’s used the architecture of the whole world to illuminate New Haven,” Mr. Goldberger added, “as he’s used New Haven to illuminate the architecture of the world.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SensePresident Trump likes to argue that the tax-reform legislation hurtling through Congress this week will protect low- and middle-income households, “not the wealthy and well connected.” He puts himself forward as Exhibit A.So surely at least a few of the most egregious loopholes that benefit Mr. Trump and real estate developers like him will be closed.Not in the slightest.In fact, the proposals seem almost tailor-made to enrich the president and people like him.“Commercial real estate came out essentially unscathed,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, a conservative advocacy group. Real estate developers “didn’t lose anything they care about,” and they got even more breaks, like a shorter depreciation schedule in the Senate tax bill, Mr. Holtz-Eakin pointed out.Mr. Trump still has not released his tax returns, so it’s impossible to know to what extent he would personally benefit from the legislation. But there’s little doubt that he would.“Lower pass-through rates and the repeal of the alternative minimum tax — those two alone are so hugely beneficial to Trump that I have trouble imagining any way that he wouldn’t come out ahead,” said Steve Wamhoff, senior fellow for federal tax policy at the nonpartisan Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. (The pass-through reference involves income that typically comes from partnerships and limited liability companies.)Not only that, but rental income, royalty payments and licensing fees — some of the president’s major sources of income — get especially favorable treatment under new rates for pass-through income. (Mr. Trump’s assets include more than 500 pass-through partnerships and limited liability companies.)As many people have pointed out, the “wealthy and well connected,” as Mr. Trump described them, will benefit disproportionately from the proposed legislation. That’s in large part because the big tax cuts for corporations heavily favor shareholders, and the wealthy own a disproportionate amount of stocks and other assets.Many wealthy taxpayers will also benefit from the lower rates on pass-through income, since such income accrues overwhelmingly to the wealthiest taxpayers.Even among that affluent population, the additional breaks that would benefit Mr. Trump and a small cadre of real estate developers like him stand out.Consider one of the most criticized loopholes in the current tax code: the exemption from taxation of so-called like-kind exchanges. That has enabled owners of property to sell at a large capital gain but defer any tax as long as they use the proceeds to buy some other property.The House and Senate bills eliminate the favored treatment of like-kind exchanges — except for “real property.” Owners of paintings, for example, would not be able to sell a Cezanne and buy a Van Gogh tax-free. But owners of commercial real estate could keep flipping the properties until they die without ever paying any capital gains tax. (And if the estate tax is abolished, the gains might go untaxed forever.)One of the biggest reforms in the tax legislation would limit the ability of businesses to deduct interest payments from their taxable income while giving them the ability to expense capital improvements (rather than depreciate them). Commercial real estate interests had howled over this provision, because they rely so heavily on debt to finance their operations.The list goes on. In both the House and Senate legislation, only certain kinds of income are eligible for the lower pass-through rates. Short-term capital gains, dividends, interest and annuity payments do not qualify.But rent, royalties and licensing fees — all similar in character to the disallowed income — weren’t included in that list, Mr. Rosenthal pointed out. All remain eligible for the lower pass-through rate.“I call them the Donald J. Trump exceptions,” since the president receives so much income from those sources, Mr. Rosenthal said. “Trump will get a huge windfall on his rental, license and royalty income,” he predicted.A major way that losses are generated in real estate ventures is through depreciation, which is supposed to reflect the way that assets lose value over time. But a well-maintained building typically gains value (and maintenance costs are all deductible). So most depreciation charges lead to what the president might call “fake” losses, and they might never be recouped, because taxes on any sale can be deferred through like-kind exchanges.The House and Senate rejected proposals to curb the use of such noncash charges. Instead, the Senate, by shortening the depreciation schedule for commercial property to 25 from 39 years, would accelerate the rate at which real estate investors can take such deductions.From what little is known of Mr. Trump’s tax returns, he used losses to offset virtually all of his taxable income for years by generating something called net operating loss carry-overs. Under both the House and Senate versions, such carry-overs can be used to offset only 90 percent of a person’s taxable income (and, in the Senate version, 80 percent after 2022, which reverts to 90 percent after 2025 if revenue targets are met) in a given year. That is a modest improvement over the existing code, but it still allows for the full offset over time.One of the biggest benefits for the president, and for other wealthy taxpayers with high deductions, is the proposed repeal of the alternative minimum tax. Thanks to Mr. Trump’s leaked 2005 tax return, we know that the only reason he paid federal tax of 24 percent of his taxable income that year was because of the alternative minimum tax. (Without it, he would have paid just 4 percent.)The rationale for eliminating the alternative minimum tax is that such a backup system should not be necessary if the tax code is fundamentally fair and eliminates all the loopholes that made it possible for high-income taxpayers to escape taxation in the first place. As should be obvious by now, this legislation expands such loopholes.“It’s surprising to me that no real attempt was made to close any of these loopholes,” said Mr. Wamhoff, given that “virtually every nonpartisan tax expert agrees that commercial real estate is already so favored by the tax code.” Even Democrats, for the most part, have remained silent.Perhaps it shouldn’t be so surprising, given that the president is the real-estate-investor-in-chief, and that his personal interests align with one of the country’s most powerful lobbies.“Real estate interests are very powerful when it comes to the tax laws,” Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. “They’ve got bipartisan support, and it’s been that way forever.”videoAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byBut make no mistake about it: “Junk” is about as close to reality as theater gets.I should know: I’m the author of “Den of Thieves,” which chronicled the rise and fall of Michael Milken and his junk bond empire and the cast of characters that whirled around him. The author of “Junk,” Ayad Akhtar, has cited my book and “The Predators’ Ball,” Connie Bruck’s pathbreaking account of Mr. Milken’s heyday at Drexel Burnham Lambert, as works that influenced his play.Part of the fun of watching “Junk” is matching the characters to their real-life counterparts: the junk bond trader Robert Merkin (Mr. Milken); the arbitrageur Boris Pronsky (Ivan Boesky); the United States attorney Giuseppe Addesso (Rudolph Giuliani). Even their fictional names seem alliterative of those of their actual counterparts.Other characters are less obvious. Is the “private equity” magnate Leo Tresler really Teddy Forstmann? Of the many old-line industrial firms that succumbed to Mr. Milken’s junk bond onslaught, which one is Everson Steel and United?It’s a credit to Mr. Akhtar’s skills as a dramatist that such questions soon fade as deeper truths and questions emerge. No one unfamiliar with Michael Milken or even junk bonds should be deterred from seeing “Junk.” People who think they already know the story should be prepared to leave the theater with unsettling new thoughts.Perhaps it has taken the perspective gained over nearly three decades to see what a turning point in American history the late 1980s turned out to be, and how they shaped, as Mr. Akhtar puts it, “the world we inhabit today.”“The 1980s represents a collapse of a collective vision of who we were as Americans,” Mr. Akhtar told me last week when we met to discuss his play. “This is where the Trump presidency began.” (As one character puts it: “We used to be a country that paid our bills. That made things.”)“I believe Milken was a great genius,” Mr. Akhtar continued. At the same time, “there’s something demonic about genius.”“You’re not going to find prevailing notions of morality in someone who’s really thinking outside the box,” he said.Mr. Akhtar, who won a Pulitzer Prize for his 2012 play, “Disgraced,” doesn’t minimize the fictional Merkin’s crimes. (He engages in a blatant insider trading conspiracy with Pronsky, something Mr. Milken never admitted and insisted never happened.) But Merkin says he has no choice. He’s an outsider to privilege, partly because he’s Jewish and partly because he threatens the existing order.Referring to the chief executive of his latest target, Merkin says: “We’ve dealt with guys like this our whole lives. Guys who’d laugh at us, we tried a get a job at their banks, their firms, whatever. Shut out our dads. For God’s sake, my father? Graduated top of his class, Brooklyn College. Couldn’t get an interview at Hartford, Jordan Guaranty, half a dozen other white-shoe firms in the city he’d had his heart set on. Because he was a Jew. Here’s a guy. Loyal. To a fault. Sharp as a razor. Good with numbers.” All he could aspire to was “balance the books of dry cleaners and dentists.”When his wife warns him not to commit insider trading with Pronsky, Merkin respondss: “How do you think J. P. Morgan made the kind of money he did? Rockefeller? Carnegie? They bent the rules. That’s how they made their fortunes. And the world lived with it. No, the world loved it.”In Mr. Akhtar’s telling, Merkin emerges as a full-throated advocate for a cosmopolitan globalism that’s the antithesis of Trump/Bannon America-first populism. At an investor conference (an obvious reference to what came to be known as Mr. Milken’s Predators’ Balls), Merkin proclaims: “Let’s set aside the revolting assumption that God doesn’t bless other nations, or that somehow an American father’s job is more important to his family than a Chinese father’s job is to his. Let’s just set aside those lies. Those delusions. And let’s stick with the facts.“Fact: They are winning. Fact: We need to understand why. Fact: We need to change. When you stay blind, you can’t change. When you can’t change, you die. And that is what is happening in this country right now.”Mr. Akhtar said it wasn’t his role, as a playwright, to pass judgment. “My job is to identify with all the different perspectives,” he said.I asked if Mr. Akhtar had heard from Mr. Milken, now a philanthropist and chairman of the Milken Institute, since the play opened. “No,” he said, “but I have heard from some of his friends who saw the play. They think he should see it.”In “Junk,” Judy Chen, a freelance journalist, abandons her tough-minded reporting on Merkin after he offers millions of dollars to buy her out of her book contract. She takes the money.Something like this did happen. According to Ms. Bruck’s account in “The Predators’ Ball,” Mr. Milken tried to pay her off so she wouldn’t write the book. Unlike Ms. Chen in “Junk,” she rebuffed him.Geoffrey Moore, a spokesman for Mr. Milken, said that no such interaction had occurred.“The scene with the unscrupulous journalist/author has no connection to reality,” he said. Of the play more generally, he said that Mr. Milken always dealt fairly with others in business. “It’s absurd to compare him at any level to the character in this fictional work,” he said.Mr. Akhtar told me that he didn’t mean to suggest that all journalists are corrupt, but that his play is about “the system, and the system has co-opted journalists as well.”“We’ve all bought into the ideology of money,” he said.But not everyone in the 1980s was driven primarily by money. Dennis Levine, the investment banker whose 1986 arrest for insider trading led to the unraveling of Mr. Milken’s empire, fatally underestimated the skill and determination of the hardworking, underpaid government lawyers investigating him.“Only morons would work for $50,000 a year,” he memorably told his co-conspirators, assuring them that they had nothing to worry about.Despite their vast collective wealth, Mr. Levine, Mr. Boesky and Mr. Milken couldn’t buy the verdicts they sought and were convicted and sent to prison. That was “a tribute to the American system of justice,” I wrote in 1991, when “Den of Thieves” was published.Twenty-six years later, Mr. Akhtar said he was more cynical. “Your book had a strong moral underpinning,” he told me. But, invoking the alternate-reality towns of “It’s a Wonderful Life,” he added: “We’re in Pottersville now, not Bedford Falls.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS