AdvertisementSupported byWheelsThrough its 114-year history, Harley-Davidson has taken on numerous contenders intent on dethroning it as the dominant American motorcycle maker. So far, it has a perfect record.But Harley now faces perhaps its most trying challenge in decades. Polaris, an established American company with manufacturing know-how and a revered motorcycle brand in Indian, is quickly making big strides.Polaris surprised the industry in January when it announced that it would shut its homegrown motorcycle brand, Victory, and focus entirely on Indian, a company it bought in 2011. So far, the move seems like a smart one.Indian’s sales grew 17 percent in the second quarter of this year, while Harley’s sales shrank nearly 7 percent. Overall sales for large-displacement bikes, the kind that Harley specializes in, shrank 9 percent in the second quarter of this year.Even with those results, Harley’s grip on the overall market remains strong, holding a market share that hovers around 50 percent for big bikes, handily eclipsing Indian’s single-digit slice. But the Indian surge is striking in that it counters the overall market’s downward drift.To some degree, the rapid rise is a result of lessons learned from 18 years of building the Victory brand. “That was the school of hard knocks,” said Scott Wine, chief executive of Polaris Industries. “Indian’s share of its segment is already higher than Victory’s was.”Polaris, long known for snowmobiles and off-road vehicles, expanded into motorcycles with the introduction of its Victory line in 1998. Victory’s big V-twin engines, combined with layouts that favored a relaxed riding posture — what bikers classify as the cruiser genre — crib somewhat from Harley’s playbook. That approach attracted a devoted following, but not the volume and profits needed to sustain production in a mature market.Though not apparent at the time, Victory’s fate was sealed by Polaris’s purchase of the Indian brand in 2011. The original Indian company, which opened in 1901 and failed in 1953 despite a history of innovation and racetrack success, had been the subject of previous revival attempts. But no modern owner had the industrial clout of Polaris.The rebirth started well, with attractive bikes earning positive reviews from enthusiast publications, and the potential for growth was greater with Indian than with Victory.“Victory ended 2016 up 7 percent in sales, but it wasn’t profitable,” Mr. Wine said. “Winding it down made sense in terms of allocating capital and engineering resources.”All Indian motorcycles are built in Spirit Lake, Iowa. While its bikes like the Scout and the just-released Scout Bobber are aimed at younger buyers, most models revel in heritage, with styling and names that hark back to the company’s prewar glory days. They represent, as Karl Brauer of Kelley Blue Book, an auto research firm, put it, “a cool theme married to a modern chassis” and particularly appeal to buyers with a “what have you done for me lately” outlook on brand loyalty.Inevitably, Indian’s retro approach makes the brand a head-to-head competitor for Harley-Davidson, offering bikes in the touring, cruiser and midsize classes as well as the popular bagger category, or bikes carrying saddlebags but not the full windscreen and gear of a long-distance touring machine.History has taught Harley that taking a wait-and-see attitude to this development could be painful. Even if competitors haven’t beaten Harley, they have whittled away at its market share — most notably Japanese brands, which have created model lines like the Kawasaki Vulcan and the Suzuki Boulevard.Michael W. Kennedy, Harley’s vice president and managing director for the United States, points to the company’s ambitious programs for the coming decade, including introducing two million new riders to motorcycling through its Riding Academy and the release of 100 new models. There is also the matter of affordability: “We’ve got nine bikes under $12,000 in the United States and a Street Rod model that’s $9,000,” Mr. Kennedy said, addressing a perception that Harley-Davidson products carry a big price tag.Robin Farley, who leads leisure-market analysis at UBS Investment Bank, said Harley’s problem was not a simple matter of shifting loyalties. Sales have been declining for the last three years, partly because an aging rider population is shrinking Harley’s core customer base.The slide is not just a recent development. “Harley’s sales were declining in 2007, before even the recession hit the industry,” Ms. Farley said. “Harley-Davidson dropped more than Indian gained, and new entries like the middleweight Street models have lower margins that cannot offset declines in the core business.”Adding to its woes, the company was fined $15 million last year for selling engine control devices that violated exhaust emissions regulations, though the Trump administration in July dropped a $3 million portion of that settlement that required Harley to fund an antipollution program.Another wild card in the industry is the future of Ducati, a brand that shuffled among various owners until landing in the Volkswagen corporate portfolio, under Audi’s supervision, in 2012. Despite reports that Ducati is up for sale, analysts have expressed skepticism about how much it could improve the results for a new company. The economics would be hard to justify as well: Motorcycle sales in the United States have not nearly recovered to pre-2008 levels, and Harley recently lowered its forecasts for 2017 sales.Indian’s product plans call for eight new models in 2017, and Mr. Wine hinted broadly about entering new market segments. The company’s successful dirt-track racing program — another direct challenge to Harley — may offer some clue. Polaris also acquired an electric motorcycle maker, Brammo, in 2015, but the company has said it is not yet satisfied that the bikes meet its standards for performance, range and price.To be sure, there is little chance that Indian will run Harley-Davidson out of business anytime soon. Harley’s sales last year, some 260,000 motorcycles worldwide, generated revenue of $6 billion.Polaris does not release sales volume figures, but motorcycles in 2016 accounted for just 16 percent of the company’s $4.5 billion revenue. Indian’s growth is bound to look strong, at least in percentage terms, given its modest baseline, and that will be especially true for international markets.But to Steve Menneto, president for motorcycle operations at Polaris, the reality of a market that has seemingly topped out means that cannibalism is unavoidable.“As you go up in engine size, you have to take share from your competitors,” Mr. Menneto said. The corollary — one formula for growth — is then to engineer motorcycles with smaller engines like the Bobber and the Scout 60. “That’s where you’ll find the chance to bring in new riders,” he said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBy “the past,” he presumably means old-fashioned valuation measures like price-to-earnings or price-to-sales ratios, the traditional benchmarks for evaluating stock prices. By those measures, Tesla — a company that lost $773 million last year — is indeed off the charts.Tesla’s market value of nearly $49 billion is not only higher than that of Ford, which earned nearly $11 billion in profit last year, but is within easy striking distance of General Motors, which earned $9.4 billion.In contrast to Tesla, Ford and G.M. shares have dropped recently on fears that auto sales have hit a cyclical peak. Ford and G.M. executives wouldn’t comment on Tesla’s stock surge, but it’s easy to imagine they’d be tearing their hair out in frustration.“It’s nuts,” Bruce Greenwald, a professor at Columbia Business School and an expert in value investing, said of Tesla’s stock price. “Investors believe it’s going to dominate a market that no company has ever dominated before.”But Tesla is not a stock, or a company, that is measured by the past, as Mr. Musk is well aware. He also wrote on Twitter that stock prices represent “risk-adjusted future cash flows” — and Tesla is about nothing if not a utopian future of safe, reliable, powerful, self-driving electric vehicles powered by solar-fed batteries that are easy on the environment.In that regard, Tesla has ascended into a rarefied realm of so-called story stocks — companies that have so bewitched investors that their stock prices are impervious to any traditional valuation measures because their stories are simply too good not to be true.And to the dismay of short-sellers, who believe they have ample rational reasons to bet against such stocks, their share prices can stay in the stratosphere for years, even decades.These story stocks — the term was coined by James Montier, a value investor and a member of the asset allocation team at the investment management firm GMO — are relatively rare, but hardly new. Amazon’s stock surged for decades even without any meaningful profits. A more recent example is Snapchat’s parent, Snap, which is racking up large losses while its stock trades at an astronomical price-to-sales ratio of nearly 50, far higher than Tesla’s 7. (Ford’s, by comparison, is 0.3.)Amazon and Snap both have stories that are compelling for many investors: Amazon has transformed retailing and is destined to dominate it. Snap is reinventing communication, at least for millennials and those even younger.Early investors in Uber and Airbnb, though they remain private companies, have valued them at stratospheric multiples based largely on the notion that Uber will transform and dominate local transportation and Airbnb will revolutionize the hotel industry.For story stocks, any development that lends credence to the story can cause a surge in already high valuations. This week Tesla reported quarterly sales that were modestly above expectations, and the stock surged 7 percent in a day. Tesla shares are up nearly 40 percent this year, even though many investors considered them overvalued in January.Ron Baron, the billionaire investor and founder of Baron Capital, disclosed last year that he owned about 1.6 million Tesla shares. He predicted on CNBC in February that Tesla shares would quadruple by 2020 and triple again by 2025. By then he expects Tesla to become the largest company in the world as measured by market capitalization.For all the excitement and promise surrounding such companies, there are many cautionary tales.“Stories are great before bed, but are disastrous as a stock-selection technique,” Mr. Montier wrote in his 2009 book “Value Investing: Tools and Techniques for Intelligent Investment.” If something is expensive based on traditional valuation metrics, he said, “you had better believe its story, as that is all you have.”(A Tesla spokeswoman said Mr. Musk could not be reached for comment.)Various studies have shown that stocks with high price-to-sales ratios, on average, significantly underperform market averages. For every Tesla or Uber, there’s a Valeant Pharmaceuticals or Theranos — two story stocks that seduced an astounding array of prominent investors and supporters based on stories that did turn out to be too good to be true.And while many investors’ memories tend to be short, the so-called dot-com bubble in the late 1990s spawned scores of story stocks, nearly all of them now worthless and forgotten.Still, Mr. Montier acknowledged, “Stories are compelling.” They appeal to intuition rather than reason. “But perhaps investors would be well advised to follow Odysseus’s example of putting beeswax in his crew’s ears and tying himself to the mast in order to avoid the disastrous, but oh so desirable, call of the Siren song.”Will Tesla be one of the rare exceptions and, as Mr. Baron has predicted, emerge as the world’s most valuable company?The company has won over many skeptics with its near-flawless execution, so far, and the high quality of its vehicles and high levels of consumer satisfaction. It is no longer a start-up: It delivered 25,000 vehicles in the last quarter. It is on track to achieve economies of scale, and the company says the gross margin on each vehicle is above 20 percent, far higher than the industry average. That could drive enormous future profits.But that’s not the Tesla story — or stories — investors are betting on.Adam Jonas, a Morgan Stanley automotive analyst who is hardly a starry-eyed optimist about the industry, upgraded Tesla shares to overweight in January. He singles out the company’s new autonomous driving technology as a compelling safety feature that will significantly reduce occupant and pedestrian injuries and fatalities. This week he said he expected “vehicle safety to be the primary differentiator in Tesla’s upcoming product offensive,” referring to the eagerly anticipated introduction of Tesla’s new, lower-price Model 3, which will be equipped with the new technology.That Tesla is an all-electric, environmentally friendly, nonfossil-fuel vehicle — the story that once excited investors — is barely mentioned anymore.Even more futuristic is the idea that Tesla cars will be entirely self-driving, able to cruise streets nearly full time (except when they are being charged at Tesla’s high-speed battery-charging stations). In this vision, Tesla owners will share their vehicles with Tesla when not using them, and during that time they will ferry other passengers, serving as Tesla’s version of Uber. Thus Tesla will disrupt Uber’s nascent market dominance.And Tesla is no longer seen just as a vehicle manufacturer. With its solar and battery technologies, it is in a position to dominate two other enormous industry segments. Tesla “is reinventing the electric grid,” as Mr. Baron said on CNBC. “That’s a bigger opportunity than cars.”Even if all that comes to pass, it may not be enough to justify Tesla’s valuation unless it can sustain a competitive advantage over time, as Mr. Greenwald, the value investing expert, put it. Tesla is spending heavily on research and development, and perhaps its technology will be difficult or impossible for others to replicate. The established automakers have had years to catch up to or overtake Tesla’s Model S, with a conspicuous lack of success.But for committed value investors, the writing is on the wall: “Is Tesla going to dominate its industry? That’s the key question,” Mr. Greenwald said. “When it comes to the global auto industry, no one ever has, and in all likelihood, no one ever will.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementThe Trump appointee charged with enforcing federal labor rights is moving to head off a court ruling in a case against McDonald’s that could redefine the accountability of companies for their franchisees’ employment practices.The case, being tried before a special court of the National Labor Relations Board, was brought during the Obama administration, when the board was under Democratic control. Since President Trump’s election, Republican members have regained a majority, steering the board away from a pro-labor orientation.An adverse decision for McDonald’s could have enormous implications for the franchise business model, affecting millions of workers in the fast-food industry and beyond. Employees at disparate franchise locations could seek union representation to deal directly with parent companies, rather than be left to work out disputes with franchisees.But rather than push for a decision that could create a broad precedent, the board’s new general counsel has been scrambling to broker settlement terms among the company, its franchisees and the workers at the center of the case. A judge had halted the trial for 60 days to provide a chance to do so.AdvertisementOn Monday, when a proposed settlement was presented, the judge said not so fast.The proposal would pay a range of roughly $20 to $50,000 to several dozen workers who alleged that McDonald’s franchises had violated their labor rights. The agreement would include no admission of liability by McDonald’s or its franchisees.AdvertisementMcDonald’s argued in a motion that the terms were far more substantial than anything the government was likely to win in court. It noted that the settlement would save years of litigation, during which time workers would receive no monetary relief.Micah Wissinger, a lawyer for the Service Employees International Union and affiliated groups, which helped bring the charges against McDonald’s and has been an advocate for the workers, called the proposal a sham.“In a real settlement, McDonald’s would take responsibility for illegally firing and harassing workers fighting to get off food stamps and out of poverty,” Mr. Wissinger said in a statement after Monday’s court appearance.The judge, Lauren Esposito, told the lawyers that she would schedule a hearing on the proposed settlement so they could air their arguments, and said the agreement would not be valid without her approval.Nonetheless, some workers have already received portions of the specified payments, according to email correspondence between an official of the National Labor Relations Board and a union lawyer.The board did not respond to a request for comment.A central question in the trial is whether McDonald’s is a so-called joint employer of workers directly employed by its franchisees. A parent company is considered a joint employer if it controls their working conditions, although the legal criteria for determining control in this context has shifted in recent years.A finding that McDonald’s is a joint employer would make the company liable for labor-law violations committed by its franchisees, and would require it to bargain with restaurant workers who unionized.AdvertisementThe workers in the case asserted that their bosses at McDonald’s restaurants had disciplined them, retaliated against them and in some cases fired them for taking part in protests beginning in 2012 in which they demanded a $15 hourly wage and a union.But in January, the labor board’s new general counsel, appointed by Mr. Trump, was granted a 60-day stay in the case — which expired Monday — to pursue settlement talks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The general counsel, Peter B. Robb, argued that two labor board decisions in December, one of which changed the legal standard for determining joint employment, might have weakened aspects of the case against McDonald’s and made a settlement more likely.In his request for a stay, Mr. Robb said a settlement could “facilitate far more prompt and immediate remedial relief for the employees impacted by the alleged unfair labor practices.”Before the December decision by the board, a parent company like McDonald’s could be considered a joint employer if it exerted indirect control over workers at a franchisee, or if it had the right to exercise control over workers that it nonetheless did not exercise.After the board’s decision in December, a company had to have direct and immediate control over workers to be considered a joint employer.At the time he sought a stay, labor groups argued that Mr. Robb’s logic was specious because the board’s case against McDonald’s did not hinge on which definition of joint employment applied.Lawyers for the Service Employees International Union argued that even if the general counsel preferred to seek a settlement, it made no sense to stop the trial, which was only days from concluding, in order to do so.AdvertisementIn a court filing, they argued that stopping the trial would give McDonald’s an advantage by preventing union lawyers from cross-examining a key witness, and that it fostered “a game of hide-the-ball.”Several Democratic senators, including Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Cory Booker of New Jersey, stated in a March 7 letter that the board’s reversal “eliminates whatever support may have existed for your efforts to settle the McDonald’s case so near to the trial’s close.” They urged Mr. Robb to “swiftly resume and finish the trial.”But Mr. Robb’s office pressed ahead with its efforts to reach a settlement. Last week, lawyers from the labor board’s regional offices abruptly reached out to several former McDonald’s workers involved in the case. In one instance, a labor board lawyer called a worker and asked if she “was ok with $50k” for back pay as part of the settlement, according to an email between the board and Mr. Wissinger, one of the union lawyers. The offer was conditional on the worker’s waiving her right to be reinstated in her old job.Mr. Wissinger said that the calls created the impression that workers needed to accept the offers before they consulted with him or his colleagues or anyone else, and that at least two did.“It was a done deal by the time we found out,” Mr. Wissinger said. “They were completely cutting us out of the process.”Jennifer Abruzzo, who served as deputy general counsel of the labor board until 2017, said settlement discussions that excluded lawyers who backed the workers were a break with custom.“That’s unusual,” Ms. Abruzzo said. “The charging party is the one that the regions typically go to. And the charging party in this instance is the S.E.I.U.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementHedge funds have been failing over the last year at the fastest rate since the financial crisis in 2008. Some crashed and burned after sudden reversals. Others quietly liquidated.Sears said that the statement reflected a new, more stringent accounting rule, and that the company was in no imminent danger of bankruptcy. “We are a viable business that can meet its financial and other obligations for the foreseeable future,” said Jason Hollar, Sears’s chief financial officer.AdvertisementStill, coming after seven straight years of huge losses, the announcement seems a milestone on a road that has only one likely end.Advertisement“It takes a retailer like Sears a long time to die,” said Greg Melich, senior managing director and head of consumer research for Evercore, and the last Wall Street analyst still covering Sears. “It’s been burning through over a billion dollars in cash every year. That’s not sustainable.”Sears Holdings has long been ESL’s largest investment, along with other Sears assets Mr. Lampert spun off, such as the struggling Lands’ End. (The two holdings accounted for nearly half the fund’s holdings at the end of the year, according to its most recent securities filings.) Sears Holdings shares were $162 in 2006; this week they were barely above $11.Few hedge fund managers have been as celebrated as Mr. Lampert in his heyday, which now appears to be the mid-2000s. Mr. Lampert was a Wall Street wunderkind, a Goldman Sachs intern whose intellect, ingratiating personality and prodigious work ethic attracted the patronage of some of America’s most prominent and successful investors: Robert Rubin, Mr. Lampert’s mentor at Goldman; Richard Rainwater, who invested for the billionaire Bass brothers before starting his own firm; and David Geffen, the billionaire entertainment mogul.Mr. Lampert was 25 years old and at the vanguard of the hedge fund movement when he founded ESL in 1988 with $28 million in seed money from Mr. Rainwater.The change in Sears share price from 2006 to the beginning of this week.No one compares Mr. Lampert to Mr. Buffett anymore. His high-profile investors are, for the most part, long gone. Mr. Tisch, who’s also a director of Sears, is described as steadfastly loyal. Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s roommate at Yale and now Treasury secretary, disclosed last year that he had a $26 million investment in ESL. (Mr. Mnuchin said he would divest the position.)AdvertisementNotably, a group of Goldman Sachs clients who had invested $3.5 billion in 2007 bailed out of the fund in 2013. Their exit “pretty much says it all” as far as investor confidence in Mr. Lampert goes, Mr. Melich said.Where did someone as smart, successful and hard-working as Mr. Lampert go wrong? His initial concept to combine two iconic but deeply distressed retailers — Kmart and Sears — initially appealed to many investors as a classic investment in undervalued, poorly managed assets in the Warren Buffett style. But Mr. Buffett doesn’t personally manage his portfolio companies. Several former Lampert investors told me that Mr. Lampert’s fundamental mistake was one common to many once-successful hedge fund managers: hubris, and the belief that investment prowess would translate into management skill.“He was a very successful investor before he took over Kmart and Sears,” said Mark Cohen, former chief executive of Sears Canada and a professor at Columbia Business School, where he’s the director of retail studies. (Mr. Cohen left Sears Canada before Mr. Lampert arrived.)“He seemed to think he was smarter than anyone in the retail business, but he had no idea how to run the company from Day 1,” Mr. Cohen said. “One thing I teach is that core competencies are the basis for success or failure. Lampert had no experience in retail, and no management competency whatsoever.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sears and other brick-and-mortar retail chains, of course, have been battered over the last decade by forces beyond Mr. Lampert’s control, especially the rise of internet retailing. Mr. Lampert claims to have foreseen the trend. If so, he’s had scant success carrying out a strategy to deal with it.His one consistent approach over the years has been to cut costs drastically. Initially, it seemed to work, increasing cash flow and earnings. “There’s a philosophy to that,” Mr. Melich said, but Sears “grossly underinvested in areas that proved to be very relevant to the future of merchandising, such as multichannel retailing.”He pointed to the contrast between Sears and Home Depot, whose shares have nearly tripled in the last five years, despite the internet and competition from Amazon.Mr. Lampert has shown more prowess as a financial engineer, and has seemingly squeezed Sears’s once formidable assets for every penny of value through a continuing series of asset sales, spinoffs, dividend payouts and loans secured by Sears assets. Mr. Lampert has emphasized that because he is Sears’s largest shareholder, his interests are aligned with other Sears shareholders.But the perception persists that many of these deals have benefited Mr. Lampert more than shareholders, since he’s often on both sides of the transactions.AdvertisementOver the last two years alone, Mr. Lampert and ESL have extended Sears over $800 million in loans secured by Sears assets — nearly two-thirds as much as Sears’s entire market capitalization of $1.2 billion. That makes Mr. Lampert and ESL the largest Sears creditors, giving them vastly different interests than most shareholders. (ESL Investments holds 48 percent of Sears Holdings’s equity and 32 percent of its total long-term debt.) As creditors, they could end up owning Sears if it reorganizes in bankruptcy, while other Sears shareholders would be wiped out.Last month, Mr. Lampert and the Sears board agreed to pay $40 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit claiming that Sears’s sale and lease-back of much of its most valuable real estate to a real estate investment trust — 43 percent owned by Mr. Lampert and his ESL hedge fund — was a blatant conflict of interest that harmed Sears shareholders. Sears has denied any wrongdoing and said it had settled the suit merely to avoid “protracted litigation.”Mr. Lampert “has stripped Sears of its assets,” Mr. Cohen said. “It’s the longest liquidation in retail history. His reputation in the retail community is that he’s a financial pirate.”Like most hedge fund managers, Mr. Lampert continues to get a management fee no matter how poorly the fund’s assets perform.Still, Sears’s travails and their impact on ESL’s results have clearly taken a toll on Mr. Lampert’s own fortunes. Although Mr. Lampert probably shows substantial gains on his original investment in Sears and Kmart, “he and ESL investors can’t have fared very well over the past six or seven years,” Mr. Melich said.Mr. Lampert remains one of the country’s richest people. He owns lavish homes in Greenwich, Conn.; Aspen, Colo.; and Miami as well as a 288-foot yacht, Fountainhead, named after the Ayn Rand novel (Mr. Lampert is a devotee of the author). Last year Forbes ranked him tied for No. 309 on its annual list of the 400 richest Americans, with a net worth of $2.3 billion.But that’s a billion-and-a-half dollars less than Forbes estimated back in 2006. Since then, Mr. Bezos has vaulted to No. 2 on the Forbes list, just behind Bill Gates, with a net worth of $67 billion. Had Mr. Lampert simply put his fortune in a stock market index fund rather than gaining control of Sears and Kmart, he would have fared far better.Through a spokesman, Mr. Lampert declined to comment.Even his critics concede that Mr. Lampert has been stubbornly consistent, refusing to throw in the towel on Sears even after years of deteriorating results. In a news release last week, he showed no signs of backing down, pledging yet another “fundamental restructuring” of Sears.His strategy? Cutting “at least $1 billion in costs on an annualized basis.”An earlier version of this column misstated the management fee charged by ESL Investments. The fund says it is 1 percent of assets under management, not 2 percent.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAt noon on Friday, Donald Trump will become the 45th president of the United States. Millions of Americans will rejoice at the sight, and millions more will not. As a rule, foreign leaders don’t attend the inauguration of American presidents, but Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, will be there in spirit. To understand why and to understand what’s happening as Trump takes over the White House, we need to go back two weeks.ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election. Russia’s goals were to undermine public faith in the US democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency. We further assess Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump.The intelligence assessment raises the question: what made Trump an attractive vehicle through which to attempt to weaken the liberal democratic order. Why him?Trump has flouted the norms of American elections and governance at every turn, including calling for the jailing of an opposing candidate, encouraging violence against protesters, endorsing the torture of prisoners, suggesting he might not respect the results of the election, falsely claiming that millions of illegal votes were cast, failing to resolve unprecedented conflicts of interest or to even disclose his tax returns, and attacking a federal judge based on his ethnicity (and that’s of course a highly incomplete list). I can’t directly assess the IC report, but it’s fair to say that the liberal democratic order is being disrupted both in the U.S. and around the world.incendiary talk is an affront to elementary democratic decency and a breach of the boundaries of American political discourse.” Krauthammer added: “It takes decades, centuries, to develop ingrained norms of political restraint and self-control. But they can be undone in short order by a demagogue feeding a vengeful populism.Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, sent me his thoughts:One, the Russians have known for a long time that Trump was susceptible to flattery, especially from major authority figures. Two, he had a significant following in the US as a mega-celebrity. Three, if he got engaged in politics, it would be divisive — a good early example being his birther efforts. Four, he would perplex, frustrate and divide Republican establishment figures, most of whom were hostile to Russia, but a divided major party serves to disrupt the democracy. I doubt they thought he would win, but he would encourage or exacerbate divisions in the society, challenge many fundamental norms over his own narcissistic sociopathic views of himself and his entitlements, and break a lot of crockery without a second’s misgiving. His victories, with the GOP nomination and the election were unexpected icing on the cake.One of our conclusions was that the Kremlin seeks out political and economic forces which weaken the “West’s desirability, credibility and moral authority.” It does this to make Russia’s neighbors less interested in seeking to cooperate and integrate with Europe or the U.S., making them more dependent on Russia. It seeks to undermine NATO’s unity in the hopes of seeking a new grand bargain with the U.S. in which the U.S. will recognize Russia’s sphere of influence and will not interfere in its internal issues.Conley continued:Against this backdrop, during the presidential campaign Mr. Trump was the only candidate that openly questioned America’s commitment to NATO and its commitment to defend the Baltic States. He was the only candidate who was not very critical of Russia’s actions in Ukraine and Syria and chose to reframe them in ways that were in sync with Russian policy. He has proposed a new relationship with Russia. In other words, based on Mr. Trump’s statements, his views appear to align with Russian interests.There are those who dispute the conclusions of the government’s intelligence report.“Instead of wasting more time” debating the contents of the report, Applebaum wrote on Jan. 13, “maybe we ought to abandon our obsession with ‘secrets’ and ‘spies’ and look at what is sitting in front of us.”Here is Applebaum’s case.First, “Trump’s real estate empire relies, though we don’t know how much, on Russian money.”Second, Applebaum writes,Fourth:Finally, Applebaum argues as evidence of Trump’s pro-Russia tilt thatTrump is willing to risk serious conflict with China, to destroy U.S. relations with Mexico, to dismiss America’s closest allies in Europe and to downgrade NATO, our most important military alliance.All this provides the basis for Applebaum’s conclusion:Trump doesn’t have to be a Manchurian candidate who has been hypnotized or recruited by foreign intelligence. It’s enough that he has direct and indirect links to a profoundly corrupt and violent foreign dictator, whose policies he admires, whose advisers he shares and whose slogans he uses. That’s kompromat enough for me.Many of the domestic and foreign policy experts I contacted suggested that Russia would not need to blackmail Trump to get what it wanted — that Trump’s susceptibility to praise has made him vulnerable to manipulation.David Leege, a professor emeritus of political science at Notre Dame, wrote me:Trump was a willing but unwitting accomplice because he loved the flattery, saw it only as a business opportunity, and had so little understanding of international relations to recognize how affairs of state could be caught up in it.Along similar lines, Sandy Maisel, a political scientist at Colby, argued that Trump’sego is such that he never asked, nor does he ask yet, what playing into the Russians needs and desires meant for our system. An unwitting — ego-driven — tool of Putin’s goal to undermine faith in our system and in the Clinton candidacy.Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego, was outspoken in his response to my question asking why the Russians favored Trump:His shameless mendacity, narcissism, authoritarian instincts, inability to tolerate opposition or criticism, hostility to formal institutions and the media, vast ignorance of foreign and domestic issues, indifference to constitutional restraints and eagerness to whip up and exploit xenophobia and (barely disguised) racism. We might add his affection for authoritarian leaders and other tough guys. Have I left anything out? Probably. All of these characteristics lead him to say things and propose actions antithetical to democratic norms and standards.Putin sees in Trump someone who is enormously susceptible to flattery, which Putin is perfectly happy to provide in order to achieve his national objectives.Putin’s major objective, Wertheimer wrote by email, isto break up the Western alliance and he appears to see Trump as an excellent vehicle to achieve this goal.Vladimir Putin has seized the momentum of this unraveling, exacting critical damage to the underpinnings of the liberal world order in a shockingly short time.This threat, McKew warns, should not be taken lightly:The West is already at war, whether it wants to be or not. It may not be a war we recognize, but it is a war. This war seeks, at home and abroad, to erode our values, our democracy, and our institutional strength; to dilute our ability to sort fact from fiction, or moral right from wrong; and to convince us to make decisions against our own best interests.Specific leaks may take aim at powerful individuals, but in the longer term, kompromat serves the interests of the powerful, which is why it is often a tool of autocrats. By eroding the very idea of a shared reality, and by spreading apathy and confusion among a public that learns to distrust leaders and institutions alike, kompromat undermines a society’s ability to hold the powerful to account and ensure the proper functioning of government.Mr. Trump’s version of reality got a boost: There was no such thing as truth, only a battle of opinions proffered by different actors, each of whom strives to be loudest.This means that we are facing the prospect of a renegade commander in chief armed with the considerable powers of the executive branch and a seemingly compliant legislature. Trump has already dealt a body blow to the political process. We will soon learn how much harm he can inflict once in office.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byWe are in uncharted waters. The New York Times is one of many venues that has made repeated mention of this.Do a Google search, and the uncharted territory looks well-charted. A search for “President Trump” and “uncharted territory” produced 27,500 results (in 0.44 seconds).“Highly unusual.” These words too have turned up with increased frequency in Times articles and opinion pieces about the new president’s decisions, announcements and actions during his first months in office.Phil Corbett, The Times’s editor of standards and practices, addressed the question of when exactly “highly unusual” events become usual, and when an unprecedented course of events become, well, precedented: “Obviously and by definition, something can only be ‘unprecedented’ once,” writes Mr. Corbett. “And, to avoid hype, the Times stylebook urges that we specify what aspect of something really qualifies as ‘unprecedented.’ Overall, the idea is: Use with care.“As for ‘unusual,’ it’s probably also a good idea to provide context for that description — especially, as you say, if the ‘unusual’ starts to become the norm. In some cases, perhaps one could say something like ‘which was unusual in past administrations’ or ‘which was rare under previous presidencies.’ ”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseHaving reached the top of a major corporation and amassed a fortune, chief executives often wonder: What’s next?After Donald J. Trump, the answer may well be a run for the White House.Mr. Trump had no political or military experience, the traditional routes to high political office. Virtually his only qualification was his business career, and a checkered one at that, considering his own brush with personal bankruptcy.“There is this sense that if Trump got it, why shouldn’t they?” said David Gergen, co-director of the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard Kennedy School and an adviser to four presidents. “They’ve been more successful, they have more experience, and they’ve run a public company, which is more equivalent to what a president does than a private company” like the Trump Organization.Stu Loeser, once the press secretary for Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor who considered a presidential run last year, concurred. “If you run a company that has employed tens of thousands of people, and generated lots of profit and been undeniably successful, and you look at a sitting president who, to be honest, a lot of business people don’t have much respect for, you think, why not me?” he said.Mr. Loeser now runs his own strategic consulting firm, and told me he has clients who are business executives considering a run for high public office. “I can’t tell you their names, obviously,” he said.Boldface corporate names widely discussed as contenders for the next Democratic presidential nomination include chief executives like Howard Schultz of Starbucks, Robert A. Iger of Disney and Marc Benioff of Salesforce.com, along with Sheryl Sandberg, the Facebook chief operating officer, and Oprah Winfrey, chairwoman and chief executive of Harpo Inc., which owns half of the Oprah Winfrey Network.All deny they’re running, or even seriously considering it. But everyone demurs so far ahead of the first primaries, as did Hillary Clinton four years ago, and it hasn’t stopped anyone from speculating. That’s especially the case for people who, appalled by the Trump administration, can hardly wait for the next campaign.“I feel many of these chief executives are responding to a public longing for a strongman, or woman, a strong leader,” Mr. Gergen said. “There’s a sense that’s why Trump got elected. You’re seeing the same thing in Europe, in Asia, in a long list of countries. People are dissatisfied with standard politicians. Military types and business people with a strong track record offer an attractive alternative.”Apart from proven business experience, they have widespread name recognition or identification with major consumer brands. And they have enough money to finance their own campaigns.I’ve spoken this week to multiple people who have at least discussed the possibility of running for office with Mr. Schultz and Mr. Iger. (All declined to be named discussing what were private conversations.)Mr. Schultz, 63, with a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion, came close to making a bid last year, but backed out after concluding it would be very difficult to defeat Mrs. Clinton, who seemed to have the Democratic nomination all but locked up and at the time seemed likely to win the presidency.Those circumstances have obviously changed drastically. With Mr. Trump in office, the next Democratic race appears wide open, and many friends and potential donors are urging Mr. Schultz to run.Mr. Schultz seemed to pave the way in December, when he announced he’d step down as Starbucks’ chief executive this April. But he continues to be actively involved in the expansion of the company’s high-end “roasteries” as well as its social-impact initiatives.“Howard Schultz is definitely being pursued,” Mr. Gergen said. “He has a powerful social conscience. He comes from a very different place than the kind of chief executive with a big ego who wants the trappings of presidential power.”Mr. Schultz declined to comment.Last year Mr. Iger, 66, told The Hollywood Reporter that “a lot of people — a lot — have urged me to seek political office,” and last week the entertainment publication fueled renewed speculation when it reported that Mr. Iger had discussed the possibility with Mr. Bloomberg.People who have discussed a possible presidential run with Mr. Iger told me that his discussion with Mr. Bloomberg, some years ago, focused more on a possible run for mayor of New York City, where Mr. Iger has an apartment. New York has long welcomed nonresident candidates like Mrs. Clinton, so Mr. Iger’s California residency isn’t seen as an obstacle.Both Mr. Iger and Mr. Bloomberg declined to comment.Whether any of those jobs, including the presidency, would actually be better than being chief executive of Disney remains an open question. After earlier announcing his retirement, Mr. Iger recently said he was willing to extend his contract, which would eliminate the need for any high-profile exit strategy, at least for the next few years.Campaign buttons emblazoned with “Vote for Benioff” and “Marc Benioff for President” circulated two years ago at Salesforce’s annual Dreamforce conference in San Francisco, which draws hundreds of thousands of participants and has been viewed by some as a likely launching pad for any Benioff campaign.Like Mr. Schultz, Mr. Benioff has pursued an ambitious social and philanthropic agenda. He started “Pledge 1%,” the Salesforce model of donating 1 percent of their product, 1 percent of their equity and 1 percent of employees’ time to help nonprofits achieve their missions — a practice that Salesforce says is now followed by 1,400 companies. Mr. Benioff was an outspoken defender of gay and lesbian rights and helped create a network of corporate leaders to oppose bills limiting L.G.B.T. rights in states like Indiana, Georgia and North Carolina.Mr. Benioff, 52, whose stake in Salesforce alone is worth over $3 billion and who has a net worth estimated by Forbes at over $4 billion, has also written three books, including the best-selling “Behind the Cloud.” Still, he’s hardly a household name, and is best known in business and technology circles.Asked for comment, Mr. Benioff said, “Business is the greatest platform for change.”Ms. Sandberg’s coming nationwide tour to promote the new book she co-authored, “Option B,” which describes coming to terms with her husband’s sudden death in 2015 and other stories of coping with adversity, has fueled speculation (and possible wishful thinking) that the book could be a springboard for a presidential campaign.As a billionaire ($1.47 billion, Forbes estimates) and a key executive of the hugely successful Facebook, Ms. Sandberg already has enormous name recognition. Her previous book, “Lean In,” was a best-seller and inspired a rallying cry for women. She has worked in politics before, as an assistant to the former Treasury secretary Lawrence H. Summers, and was a donor to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. She was considered a candidate for a top post in any Clinton administration.Ms. Sandberg has denied any immediate presidential ambitions, insisting that she loves her job at Facebook. At age 47, she’s under no pressure to run this election cycle.(Widespread reports that the Facebook founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would run for president seem even more far-fetched. The speculation appears to have been set off by a Bloomberg News report that Mr. Zuckerberg would retain voting control of Facebook even if he sold his shares and served in a government position for up to two years. Mr. Zuckerberg has denied any interest in running.)Then there’s Ms. Winfrey, 63, who for many Democrats might amount to the dream candidate: She has unrivaled star power, is an African-American woman, has run a successful business, and has a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion.“That’s what I thought,” Ms. Winfrey replied. “I thought, ‘Oh gee, I don’t have the experience, I don’t know enough.’ And now I’m thinking, ‘Oh! Oh.’”But when Mr. Rubenstein began to ask, “As you consider whether you are going to run for president of the United States or not. ..,” she interjected, “No, that won’t be happening.”While some may disparage Mr. Trump’s credentials for the presidency, he did bring to his campaign a level of recognition that will be hard for other executives to replicate, with the possible exception of Ms. Winfrey.“Trump spent decades building his brand and his image as a successful businessman,” Mr. Loeser said. “He was the star of one of the most-watched television shows in America. If you landed at La Guardia, you saw the Trump jet. If you went to Las Vegas, the tallest building in town has Trump’s name emblazoned on it.”Mr. Gergen agreed. “Trump has been a performer for years,” he said. “Most chief executives aren’t performers.”And chief executives “aren’t prepared for the scrutiny,” Mr. Gergen said. “It’s especially tough to work with the press. They’re used to having layers of people around them, but in politics you’re out there dealing with reporters every day.”“Look at Rex Tillerson,” he added, referring to the Exxon chief turned secretary of state. “He’s extremely well regarded in corporate circles, but he’s having trouble with the press.”Mr. Loeser said he was helping clients assess the kind of attacks they could expect in a hard-fought campaign.“You have to anticipate how they’ll come after you, because they will,” Mr. Loeser said. “Oprah is one of the most beloved people in America. But has anyone gone through every minute and every hour of every show she’s ever done to see if there’s anything controversial? Because someone will.”Mr. Gergen suggested that some chief executives might want to lower their sights. “I think business chief executives tend to make better governors or mayors,” he said. “They can be more pragmatic and less ideological. Some of the names you’re hearing, I have trouble picturing them with the Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders wing of the party. I wouldn’t call that a match made in heaven.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byMost tech executives and employees remain supportive of Democrats, especially on social and cultural issues. The Republican tilt of the PACs at Microsoft, Amazon, Google and Facebook suggests, however, that as these companies’ domains grow larger, their bottom-line interests are becoming increasingly aligned with the policies of the Republican Party.In 2016, the Microsoft PAC gave $478,818 to Republican House candidates and $272,000 to Democratic House candidates. It gave $164,000 to Republican Senate candidates, and $75,000 to Democratic Senate candidates.This was not small change. In 2016 Microsoft employees gave a total of $6.47 million.The firm first became a noticeable player in the world of campaign finance in 2012 when employees and the company PAC together made contributions of $910,000. That year, Facebook employees backed Democrats over Republicans 64-35, while the company’s PAC tilted Republican, 53-46.By 2016, when total Facebook contributions reached $3.8 million, the Democratic advantage in employee donations shrank to 51-47, while the PAC continued to favor Republicans, 56-44.While the employees of the three other most valuable tech companies, Alphabet (Google), Amazon and Apple, remained Democratic in their giving in 2016, at the corporate level of Alphabet and Amazon — that is, at the level of their PACs — they have not.Tech giants can no longer be described as insurgents challenging corporate America.American consumer technology companies are getting larger, more entrenched in their own sectors, more powerful in new sectors and better insulated against surprising competition from upstarts.Among Ferenstein’s findings: a minority, 29 percent, of tech company founders described labor unions as “good,” compared to 73 percent of Democrats. Asked “is meritocracy naturally unequal?” tech founders overwhelmingly agreed.Ferenstein went on:One hundred percent of the smaller sample of founders to whom I presented this question said they believe that a truly meritocratic economy would be “mostly” or “somewhat” unequal. This is a key distinction: Opportunity is about maximizing people’s potential, which founders tend to believe is highly unequal. Founders may value citizen contributions to society, but they don’t think all citizens have the potential to contribute equally. When asked what percent of national income the top 10% would hold in such a scenario, a majority (67%) of founders believed that the richest individuals would control 50% or more of total income, while only 31% of the public believes such an outcome would occur in a meritocratic society.One of the most interesting questions posed by Ferenstein speaks to middle and working class anxieties over global competition:In international trade policy, some people believe the U.S. government should create laws that favor American business with policies that protect it from global competition, such as fees on imported goods or making it costly to hire cheaper labor in other countries (“outsourcing”). Others believe it would be better if there were less regulations and businesses were free to trade and compete without each country favoring their own industries. Which of these statements come closest to your belief?There was a large difference between tech company officials, 73 percent of whom chose free trade and less regulation, while only 20 percent of Democrats supported those choices.Joel Kotkin, a fellow in urban studies at Chapman University who writes about demographic, social and economic trends, sees these differences as the source of deep conflict within the Democratic Party.The disruptive force is largely Silicon Valley, a natural oligarchy that now funds a party teetering toward populism and even socialism. The fundamental contradictions, as Karl Marx would have noted, lie in the collision of interests between a group that has come to epitomize self-consciously progressive mega-wealth and a mass base which is increasingly concerned about downward mobility.The tech elite, Kotkin writes, “far from deserting the Democratic Party, more likely will aim take to take it over.” Until very recently, theconflict between populists and tech oligarchs has been muted, in large part due to common views on social issues like gay marriage and, to some extent, environmental protection. But as the social issues fade, having been “won” by progressives, the focus necessarily moves to economics, where the gap between these two factions is greatest.Kotkin sees future partisan machination in cynical terms:One can expect the oligarchs to seek out a modus vivendi with the populists. They could exchange a regime of higher taxes and regulation for ever-expanding crony capitalist opportunities and political protection. As the hegemons of today, Facebook and Google, not to mention Apple and Amazon, have an intense interest in protecting themselves, for example, from antitrust legislation. History is pretty clear: Heroic entrepreneurs of one decade often turn into the insider capitalists of the next.In 2016, Donald Trump has produced an upheaval within the Republican Party that shifted attention away from the less explosive turmoil in Democratic ranks.Hillary Clinton’s failed bid to finesse the inherent conflict between her dependence on corporate contributions and her need for a strong turnout by union workers, minorities and idealistic millennials embodies the Democratic Party’s long term struggle.The public, at least for the moment, is not willing to support the continued compromise of principle that has been a hallmark of both parties. Trump has provided a temporary solution for the Republican Party; the Democrats need to find a legitimate and more lasting one.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byHow do Republicans hold on to the voters Donald Trump brought to the party?Securing the loyalty of the millions of white working-class Americans who lined up behind Trump will require that all three wings of the Republican Party — its business faction, its ideological purists and its cultural traditionalists — abandon any idea of strict adherence to core conservative principles on fiscal and social policy.Trade and immigration are in my view unambiguously good for the country — but new policies on these issues will have to be done in ways that are supported by the American people, not shoved down their throats by the elites. In this regard, I am a populist. The elites in both parties have not understood Trumpism and have often been contemptuous of the intellect and lifestyle of the Trump loyalists.Moore is not alone.These voters have shunned Republicans because they disagree with the party’s focus on low taxes, small government, and pro-business policies. They benefit enormously from middle-class entitlement programs; their children get what they consider to be good educations from public schools and state universities. They have no problem with redistribution so long as it is focused on either people who can’t work or people who do.In other words, these voters have little or no interest in the anti-government stance that had become reflexive among many congressional Republicans.Accommodation now requires fiscal, business and social conservatives to compromise their beliefs in ways that will be wrenching, if not intolerable, to some. Olsen’s assessment:These voters view questions of public taxation and spending differently than do other factions in the party. Where movement conservatives see many social programs and the high taxes that fund them as threats to liberty, these voters see them as giving decent, hard-working people a hand up to live decent, dignified lives. Where business conservatives see free trade or immigration as helping people and increasing growth, these voters see those policies as favoring foreigners over themselves and as just another way that their bosses try to pay them less without justification.In the case of cultural litmus test issues, Olsen argues, newly recruited white working-class converts to Trump’s Republican Party do not consider conservative dogma on gay rights, abortion, gender identity, or traditional marriage their priority.It’s everything related to jobs. The conservatives are going to go crazy. I’m the guy pushing a trillion-dollar infrastructure plan. With negative interest rates throughout the world, it’s the greatest opportunity to rebuild everything. Shipyards, ironworks, get them all jacked up. We’re just going to throw it up against the wall and see if it sticks. It will be as exciting as the 1930s, greater than the Reagan revolution — conservatives, plus populists, in an economic nationalist movement.Bannon is explicit in his identification of the enemy:The globalists gutted the American working class and created a middle class in Asia. The issue now is about Americans looking to not get f—ed over. If we deliver, we’ll get 60 percent of the white vote, and 40 percent of the black and Hispanic vote and we’ll govern for 50 years..Trump provided the voice-over, which was taken from a speech he gave in West Palm Beach in October:For those who control the levers of power in Washington and for the global special interests, they partner with these people that don’t have your good in mind. The political establishment that is trying to stop us is the same group responsible for our disastrous trade deals, massive illegal immigration and economic and foreign policies that have bled our country dry.The political establishment has brought about the destruction of our factories and our jobs as they flee to Mexico, China and other countries all around the world. It’s a global power structure that is responsible for the economic decisions that have robbed our working class, stripped our country of its wealth and put that money into the pockets of a handful of large corporations and political entities. The only thing that can stop this corrupt machine is you. The only force strong enough to save our country is us.They once believed they were elected to advance a narrowly ideological agenda, but Trump’s success has given them reason to question that belief.Among these archconservatives, who in the past had been fanatical in their pursuit of ideological purity, the realization that they can no longer depend on unfailing support from their constituents has provoked deep anxiety.As Alberta put it:Even if they support Trump nine times of ten, voting against him once could trigger a tweetstorm or the threat of a visit to their district. It’s a chilling thought for members who know that the Republican National Committee, the National Republican Congressional Committee, and the House GOP leadership already want them gone.Kevin McCarthy, the House majority leader, plans to make full use of Trump’s leverage to keep recalcitrant members of the Freedom Caucus in line.McCarthy pointed out that “Trump probably did the best” in the districts of caucus members, andit would be hard for them to stand up if President-Elect Trump is asking for this fundamental change, and they’re saying no to it.The incendiary nature of identity issues has prompted the two leading candidates for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee, Tom Perez and Keith Ellison, to purposefully focus on anodyne concerns.“Our universal message of access to economic opportunity resonates with the ironworker in northeastern Ohio and the immigrant in South Florida,” Perez told the Huffington Post, referring to two states Clinton lost. “We sometimes have a relationship deficit with our voters, because we’re not communicating that message.”At this point, the Democratic Party must be the party that delivers for working people. We can do that by meeting folks where they are, looking them in the eye, treating them with respect, and working to solve their problems.Instead of spending the final weeks of the campaign advancing a compelling economic message to show Clinton would bring change, the campaign closed with a promise to fight for opportunity and to unite a multicultural America under the banner of being ‘“stronger together.”What’s happening, and this is ironic, is that a movement with the goal of saving black lives at this point is getting black lives taken, because 80 percent of our murder victims here in Chicago are male blacks.McCarthy also pointed out that, “less than half of 1 percent of all the shootings in this city involve police officers shooting civilians.”Nor did McCarthy stop there. He contended thatthe Trump election quite frankly is a reaction to that. I think the people are tired of career politicians who’ve never really had a job telling us how we should think and how we should act.In late November such liberal icons as Bernie Sanders and President Obama cautiously broached the subject of identity politics. On Nov. 20, Sanders told a group in Boston:It’s not good enough for someone to say, “I’m a woman! Vote for me!” No, that’s not good enough. What we need is a woman who has the guts to stand up to Wall Street, to the insurance companies, to the drug companies, to the fossil fuel industry.That same day, Obama addressed reporters traveling with him in Lima, Peru:One message I do have for Democrats is that a strategy that’s just microtargeting particular, discrete groups in a Democratic coalition sometimes will win you elections, but it’s not going to win you the broad mandate that you need.we try to slice the electorate up. And we try to say, ‘You’re black, you’re brown, you’re gay, you’re straight, you’re a woman, you’re a man.’ The reality of it is there’s no juice in that kind of campaign.This thing where an obscure male backbencher thinks he deserves to replace the most accomplished woman in Congress is how sexism works.If I see my party not considering, even more intensely than they’ve done in the past, the economic, social, and political climate of the people I represent, the people I’ve been fighting for all my life, then I’m going to raise hell.At the moment, the Democratic Party is structurally fragile and its members have shied away from the kind of radical upheaval Republicans have been forced to embrace. Nonetheless, Democrats will soon face enormously risky decisions.Or should the party edge toward the center, attempting a strategic reposition on thorny issues of race, immigration, gender and identity, in effect acknowledging pressures from the right — the very pressures that delivered crucial white votes to Trump?Democrats face a vast unknown — unable to stand still and unable to make reasoned choices until they know to what lengths, demonic or inspired, Trump might go.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byBeirut JournalBEIRUT, Lebanon — The sightseers arrived in sensible shoes, carrying water, cameras and snacks as they might to a historical walking tour of Rome, Paris or London. But before they set off, their guide, a bearded, pony-tailed man who resembled a storybook Jesus, warned them in jest: “There is no insurance for this tour, which makes it very Lebanese.”Over the next four hours, the guide, Ronnie Chatah, pointed out sites associated with Lebanon’s civil war, discoursed upon the protests and assassinations that have punctuated the city’s more recent history, and even showed his guests what may or may not be the birthplace of Keanu Reeves.The tour, which Mr. Chatah gives every Sunday afternoon, also seeks to bring to life the culture and history of a Middle Eastern capital better known internationally for its wars and assassinations than for its architecture and archaeology.While he mentions his father’s killing during the tour and points out his grave next to a mosque downtown, he does not dwell on it and refrains from casting blame, seeking to give what he calls “an impartial tale of a complicated city’s past.”“The hardest thing to do is to access Beirut’s history,” he said. “If you are walking alone, you’ll miss the whole story.”That history is rather expansive. A Mediterranean seafront city of about 2.2 million, Beirut has been home over the centuries to Phoenicians, Greeks, Romans, Arabs and many others. Its last century alone has been packed with momentous events involving the Ottomans; the French; the Palestinians; a 15-year civil war; a war between Israel and Hezbollah, the militant group and political party; and a large refugee influx from neighboring Syria.But there is little public commemoration of any of it.Many of the city’s historic sites are neglected and unmarked, or they have been bulldozed to make way for apartment blocks. Scars from the civil war, which ended in 1990, are everywhere, mostly bullet holes and shrapnel markings on buildings. But that conflict’s history is not taught in public schools because the subject is still so contested and politically and emotionally sensitive.Mr. Chatah’s tour is one modest effort to remedy this historical amnesia for anyone with $20 and four free hours on a Sunday afternoon.This week, a few dozen people showed up in a plaza on the city’s west side near an airline office and a cafe to take the tour. They were a mix of foreigners and local residents — a Swedish couple with two boys; some Italian aid workers; an engineer for Lebanon’s national airline; some British finance workers on vacation; a woman with blue hair.After an introduction, Mr. Chatah led the way through 13 stops, pointing out landmarks, telling stories and explaining the roots of Lebanon’s peculiarities. On the steps of the Central Bank, for example, he explained how the country’s currency had crashed during the civil war, leading it to be pegged at about 1,500 Lebanese pounds to the dollar, a rate that still stands.The group passed the First Armenian Evangelical Church, where he talked about the Lebanese diaspora — Lebanese expatriates greatly outnumber Lebanese living inside the country — as well as the country’s complex political system and its 18 recognized religious sects.And standing between a beautifully maintained historic mansion and an old house collapsing into a weed-filled lot, he explained why development in the city had been so uneven. Disputes between far-flung relatives often prevented the unanimity needed to sell property, and the government lacked the power to declare eminent domain and intervene.The most glaring example of such a property dispute, he said, involves Beirut’s Holiday Inn. He called it “the largest headache we have in this city, the headache we can’t solve.”The huge, 26-story tower opened to great fanfare in 1974, but closed the next year when the civil war broke out and gunmen moved in to take advantage of its commanding views of downtown. Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, moved in for a while but was later pushed out, and the city’s many other fighters struggled to control the building or shell their enemies who were holed up inside.The building is now a towering concrete shell covered with bullet holes, its owners unable to agree on whether to sell it or redevelop the site, Mr. Chatah said. “They are waiting for Lebanon to be stable again,” he said. “I don’t think that will ever happen.”Other stops included the old Jewish Quarter, now a high-security zone where Saad Hariri, the prime minister, lives. The only trace of Lebanon’s Jews, nearly all of whom have left the country since the war surrounding the creation of Israel, is the Maghen Abraham Synagogue, a white building with yellow trim and Hebrew lettering above the entrance.Given the sensitivities around anything having to do with Judaism or Israel, the synagogue is not open to the public. It is not even visible from public streets.Near the end, the tour stopped in Martyrs’ Square, the traffic-clogged center of the city. There, Mr. Chatah told his tour group, the Ottomans once hanged people and the Lebanese protested against French rule and, much later, both for and against the presence of the Syrian Army in Lebanon. The latter side got its way when the Syrians pulled out in 2005.The tour itself has ridden the waves of Beirut’s tribulations.Mr. Chatah began it in the late 2000s, when tourists traveling between Istanbul, Cairo and Damascus often stopped in Beirut. He was soon giving tours seven days a week, he said.But after the conflict in Syria broke out in 2011 and a wave of new bombings and assassinations shook the city, business tapered off and the tourists were gradually replaced by aid workers.“I rode that roller coaster that went from tourism to conflict tourism,” Mr. Chatah said.Then, on Dec. 27, 2013, his father was killed and he decided to leave the country, spending a few years in Scotland to write and grieve.As with most political assassinations in Lebanon, there have been no investigations or arrests in his father’s killing, he said. But being away made him realize that he loved Beirut in a way he had not before. So he returned last year and soon revived the tours, considering them a tribute to his father.Most people on the tour knew Mr. Chatah’s history but said it made little difference in how he laid out the city’s history.“We all have personal history here,” said Rosy Raggi, who took the tour with six other Lebanese friends. “His personal history is not as important as how he tells the story.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS