AdvertisementSupported byMs. Jurecic is the managing editor of Lawfare.So goes a normal week in 2018. The push alerts ping. The tweets stack up. Arguments over constitutional law and attorney-client privilege fill the airwaves. The noise roars so loudly and from so many different sources that however much we strain to listen, it’s next to impossible to make sense out of it.Or to put it another way: Does any of this matter?Probably. But the unsatisfying answer is that we don’t know — and we really don’t know which parts will end up mattering in the long run. As the litigations and investigations move forward, though, it’s worth taking a step back and considering the various legal fronts on which the president is fighting simultaneously — filtering out as much noise from the signal as we can so the stakes are clear. Think of what follows as a cheat sheet to the legal circus surrounding the White House.The Mueller investigationThough impeachment has a legal flavor, in practice it’s a matter of politics. Congress would need to mutiny, and while Mr. Trump’s approval ratings are bad, they are not bad at all among Republicans, which makes impeachment unlikely for now, given Republican control of both the House and the Senate.Election interferenceCampaign and administration contacts with RussiansThat’s a lot of smoke, and we know the special counsel is looking into it: According to The Times, the subjects about which Mr. Mueller wants to interview the president include many questions about collusion. What we don’t know is whether Mr. Mueller has found any fire or whether any smoke reaches the Oval Office.Obstruction of justiceObstruction requires the government to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted intentionally to impede a proceeding. That’s why it’s notable that so many of Mr. Mueller’s potential questions for Mr. Trump seem to aim at determining the president’s state of mind in dismissing Mr. Comey and pressuring Mr. Sessions not to recuse himself from the investigation. Keep in mind that Congress listed obstruction of justice among the articles of impeachment for both Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton.The Cohen investigationBut the real danger of the Cohen investigation, so far as the president is concerned, may simply be that the investigations into Mr. Trump’s inner circle have grown beyond the scope of Mr. Mueller’s probe alone. The special counsel reportedly referred the Cohen case to federal prosecutors in the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York. And that means that even if Mr. Trump fires the special counsel, his legal problems will not go away.Civil lawsuitsMr. Trump isn’t a defendant in the latter two cases — but they still implicate his business ties and his conduct on the campaign trail. The real risk to the president will most likely come if these lawsuits can make it to the phase in which the plaintiffs can start requesting information and testimony from Mr. Trump and those around him. Remember that the “discovery phase” in the Paula Jones case was ultimately what set in motion President Bill Clinton’s impeachment proceedings.***The jokes of 2018 are all about nihilism: “Nothing matters!” we cheerfully, or not so cheerfully, declare. This is at its truest and most despairing when it comes to the legal chaos around the president. Perhaps none of this means anything, as Mr. Trump and many of his supporters believe. Or perhaps all of it will one day turn out to have meant everything — to the president, to the presidency, to the country.Meanwhile, the president rages. And Mr. Mueller is nearing the one-year mark of his appointment as special counsel.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS