AdvertisementSupported byMr. Mariotti is a former federal prosecutor.Mr. Trump’s team plans to use the questions to attack the special counsel as “overreaching” and going “beyond his mandate,” but the questions themselves suggest that Mr. Mueller has carefully stayed within his bounds. They contain nothing about obscure business deals or real estate transactions; the questions focus on coordination with Russia, obstruction of justice and topics that have been covered at length in the news media. None of the topics should have come as a surprise to Mr. Trump’s team, aside from an explosive question about efforts by the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort to seek aid from the Kremlin, which is squarely about coordination with Russia.What should concern Mr. Trump’s team is how the questions zero in on Mr. Trump’s criminal liability. They leave little doubt that Mr. Trump is in serious jeopardy, particularly regarding obstruction of justice. I concluded months ago that Mr. Mueller would likely determine that the president obstructed justice, but the questions show that Mr. Mueller has already thought about how he would prove his case. The queries ask about Mr. Trump’s state of mind when he fired James Comey, when he erupted in anger at Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself and when he considered firing the special counsel. The questions are intended to prove the case against Mr. Trump through his own words.But it would be a mistake to count the number of questions focused on obstruction and conclude that Mr. Mueller’s investigation of the president focuses primarily on that topic. The inquiries on topics other than obstruction are broad. For example, the question “What discussions did you have during the campaign regarding any meeting with Mr. Putin?” encompasses a lot of ground. You could ask a similar broad question regarding the Comey firing — ”What discussions did you have about or with James Comey?” — and cover much of the ground covered in the 18 questions related to him.The fact that the questions on topics other than obstruction are so broad does not necessarily suggest that Mr. Mueller has less evidence regarding those topics. A more likely possibility is that Mr. Mueller is not willing to tip his hand on those topics because the evidence he has regarding them hasn’t been extensively covered in the press.Again, it’s worth remembering that Mr. Trump’s team, not Mr. Mueller, reportedly devised these questions. Mr. Mueller may have merely responded to specific inquiries from the Trump team, and they might have asked about fewer specific events related to other topics.If Mr. Trump does not agree to an interview, Mr. Mueller is reportedly considering subpoenaing him to testify before a grand jury. The president’s lawyers are considering whether to challenge Mr. Mueller’s authority to subpoena Mr. Trump for an investigation of potential crimes he committed while in office. No president has ever challenged a prosecutor’s right to subpoena him to testify in court. Although Bill Clinton received a grand jury subpoena for his testimony, it was withdrawn after he agreed to an interview.Mr. Trump’s claim would be novel, but the Supreme Court denied Richard Nixon’s challenge to a subpoena for documents and tapes as well as Mr. Clinton’s request to postpone a civil lawsuit during his presidency. The Supreme Court would likely rule against Mr. Trump, but he could use the challenge to delay Mr. Mueller’s investigation and his own testimony, which explains why Mr. Mueller is trying to negotiate a voluntary interview.What is hardest to know is why Mr. Mueller is seeking an interview of Mr. Trump at what appears to be an early stage of the investigation. Typically prosecutors wait until the end of an investigation to interview their most important witness, because they uncover additional evidence as the investigation progresses. So does this mean that Mr. Mueller’s investigation is wrapping up soon? Or does it mean that he is considering splitting his investigation into “phases,” with a report at the end of each phase? I’m skeptical that he’ll do that: What if he uncovers new evidence in Phase 2 that changes his view of something he investigated in Phase 1?The simplest explanation for the early interview is that Mr. Mueller thinks his chances of getting the president to agree to an interview will decrease over time. Mr. Trump could at some point decide to take the Fifth to avoid testimony, despite any political downside.The potential questions we saw this week explain why Mr. Trump is so concerned about his criminal liability. He faces difficult questions — not just about obstruction but also about a host of topics related to coordination with Russia — and his lawyers appear convinced that he cannot answer them without putting himself in further jeopardy.Renato Mariotti is a former federal prosecutor.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS