AdvertisementSupported byIn the Trump era, Republicans have been revising their views on right and wrong.In 2011, the Public Religion Research Institute asked voters ifan elected official who commits an immoral act in their personal life can still behave ethically and fulfill their duties in their public and professional life.Every other religious group was less judgmental. Catholics, 49 no, 42, yes; white mainline Protestants: 44 percent no, 38 percent yes; the religiously unaffiliated, 26 no, 63 yes.Are the moral convictions of white evangelical Protestants writ in stone? Apparently not.Five years later, in October, 2016, P.R.R.I. asked the same question. The percentage of white evangelical Protestants who said that a politician who commits an immoral act in their personal life could still behave ethically shot up from 30 to 72 percent. The percentage saying such a politician could not serve ethically plunged from 63 to 20 percent.white evangelicals went from being the least likely to the most likely group to agree that a candidate’s personal immorality has no bearing on his performance in public office.What happened in the interim? The answer is obvious: the advent of Donald Trump.There is more to this phenomenon than evangelical hypocrisy. Many Republican voters, including self-identified strong conservatives, are ready and willing to shift to the left if they’re told that that’s the direction Trump is moving.malleable to the point of innocence, and self-reported expressions of ideological fealty are quickly abandoned for policies that — once endorsed by a well-known party leader — run contrary to that expressed ideology.Those most willing to adjust their positions on ten issues ranging from abortion to guns to taxes are firm Republicans, Trump loyalists, self-identified conservatives and low information Republicans.The Barber-Pope study suggests that for many Republicans partisan identification is more a tribal affiliation than an ideological commitment.Many partisans are, in effect, more aligned with the leader of their party than with the principles of the party. (Although Barber and Pope confined their study to Republicans, they note that Democrats may “react in similar ways given the right set of circumstances.”)Voters often adopted the positions legislators took, even when legislators offered little justification. Moreover, voters did not evaluate their legislators more negatively when representatives took positions these voters had previously opposed, again regardless of whether legislators provided justifications. The findings are consistent with theories suggesting voters often defer to politicians’ policy judgments.In the conventional view, democracy begins with the voters. Ordinary people have preferences about what their government should do. They choose leaders who will do those things, or they enact their preferences directly in referendums. In either case, what the majority wants becomes government policy — a highly attractive prospect.Achen and Bartels dismiss this “folk theory of democracy” to argue that the more realistic view is thatCitizens’ perceptions of parties’ policy stands and their own policy views are significantly colored by their party preferences. Even on purely factual questions with clear right answers, citizens are sometimes willing to believe the opposite if it makes them feel better about their partisanship and vote choices.They conclude “that group and partisan loyalties, not policy preferences or ideologies, are fundamental in democratic politics.”The Barber-Pope study took advantage of Trump’s exceptional propensity during the campaign to take multiple, often contradictory stands on issues. This allowed them to cite two opposing stands Trump had taken on a series of issues in order to test the willingness of Republican voters to follow Trump’s position to the left or right.For example:1. “Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”2. “Donald Trump has said that he supports this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”3. “Donald Trump has said that he opposes this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”4. “Congressional Republicans have said that they support this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”5. “Congressional Republicans have said that they oppose this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”The same variation was used on nine other contentious policy questions: increasing taxes on the wealthy, abortion, immigration, guns on school property, the Iran nuclear deal, universal health care, background checks for gun purchases, climate change and funding Planned Parenthood. The survey also asked respondents how much they approved of Trump, how they would describe their own ideology on a 5-point scale, and eight questions to rank their political knowledge.Barber and Pope found that people who identified themselves as strong Republicans were among the most malleable voters. When told Trump had adopted a liberal stance, these voters moved decisively to the left; when told Trump had taken a conservative position, they moved sharply to the right, as the accompanying chart shows.The same patterns emerged in the case of voters who strongly approve of Trump and among voters who describe themselves as “strong conservatives,” as I mentioned earlier. This last point suggests that instead of calling themselves strong conservatives, these voters are more accurately described as strong partisans.This, in turn, helps explain why most elected Republican officials accepted Trump’s equivocal response to the white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Va. last month.Nathaniel Persily, a professor of law and political science at Stanford, described his surprise at the docility of Republican officials in an email:While I and others had written extensively about the partisan tribalism of both elites and the mass public, I guess I would have expected greater defections by Republicans in the wake of Charlottesville.Persily went on to argue a related point:To some extent, I think that each Republican realizes that the electoral and political costs of opposing the president may always exceed the benefits — no matter what the issue.I asked both Barber and Pope of Brigham Young what their thoughts on American politics are now that Trump has been in office eight months.Pope argued in an email that there has been too much emphasis on polarization and not enough on partisanship.While elites — elected officials and party activists — are ideologically polarized, the best the general public “can manage is a kind of tribal partisanship that does not really reflect the content of the elite discussion,” Pope wrote:Citizens pick a team, but they don’t naturally think like the team leadership does. And when Trump tells Republicans to think in a new way, lots of people happily adopt that new position because they were never that committed to the old ideas anyway. They’re just committed to the label.Republican leaders in the House and Senate, in Pope’s view, are struggling to come to terms with a hard truth: that much of the Republican electorateis not really interested in the conservative project as expressed by Paul Ryan or Mitch McConnell or the Freedom Caucus. They are hostile to immigrants and rather nationalist in outlook, but not consistently market-oriented or libertarian in their thinking the way that some Republican elites continue to be.In a separate email, Barber wrote that the commonplace phrase “all politics is identity politics” is a good description “of the state of the Republican Party, and the Democratic Party to a degree.”He noted that a large corporate tax cut “isn’t really an ideological priority for much of the rank and file” of the Republican Party, but “if it means that their side has ‘won’, then they are in favor of it. More broadly, I think it shows us that teamsmanship is much more important than any particular policy agenda.”What can we take away from all of this?Third, and most significant, if the Barber-Pope, Broockman-Daniels and Achen-Bartels conclusions are right, American politics is less a competition of ideas and more a struggle between two teams.In other words, insofar as elections have become primal struggles, and political competition has devolved into an atavistic spectacle, the prospect for a return to a politics of compromise and consensus approaches zero, no matter what temporary accommodations professional politicians make.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIf the government goes to court to block the merger of AT&T and Time Warner, as seems increasingly likely, it may well be the antitrust case of the decade, even without the claims of presidential meddling that have already engulfed the deal in partisan controversy.A lawsuit by the Justice Department, along with its earlier, widely reported demands that AT&T sell either DirecTV or Turner Broadcasting to gain approval for the deal, would mark a radical departure from decades of antitrust enforcement policy, both in defining what is an unlawful anticompetitive merger and in fashioning a remedy to cure the problems.That’s because the combination of AT&T and Time Warner is what’s known as a “vertical” merger, meaning that the two companies don’t compete to any significant degree in their primary lines of business, which are telecommunications (AT&T) and entertainment (Time Warner). There would be the same number of competitors in both fields after the merger as there were before it.This week, two Barclays analysts, Kannan Venkateshwar and Amir Rozwadowski, called the government’s threat to block the deal “unprecedented” and said they were “perplexed” given the Justice Department’s longstanding leniency toward vertical mergers.AdvertisementAdvertisementReferring to Louis D. Brandeis, the former Supreme Court justice, he said, “There’s a populist, Brandeisian movement that’s rising.”President Trump tapped into that sentiment during the campaign when he described the proposed AT&T-Time Warner combination as “a deal we will not approve in my administration because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.”That’s a view shared by many progressive media critics, including an influential group of young antitrust professors who have been calling for stricter review of vertical mergers, especially in media and entertainment. Prominent Democrats also criticized the proposed deal.But since the election, Mr. Trump has continued to insert himself into what is supposed to be an independent review. On Wednesday, even as the Justice Department was said to be putting the finishing touches on its complaint, he renewed his attacks on CNN, the Time Warner-owned cable news network and his No. 1 media nemesis.The Justice Department hasn’t explicitly demanded that AT&T divest CNN, but it’s a key part of Turner Broadcasting. Should CNN be sold, it could easily fall into the hands of far more Trump-friendly owners than AT&T or Time Warner, such as conservative-leaning Sinclair Broadcasting, which has been on the acquisitions trail, or Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox. Fox bid for all of Time Warner’s assets in 2014 but said at the time that it would divest CNN to avoid antitrust concerns. (Fox might find Trump-appointed antitrust regulators to be friendlier this time.)AdvertisementEven when the government challenges vertical mergers, they are usually resolved by consent decree or other arrangements, in which the merged companies agree not to engage in anticompetitive behavior and to abide by conditions imposed by the government.That was the approach when Comcast acquired NBC Universal in 2011, a deal that raised many of these same issues. Comcast agreed to more than 150 conditions, many aimed at preventing Comcast from favoring NBC Universal content at the expense of competitors.While there continue to be critics of the Comcast-NBC merger, it’s hard to argue that competition in news and entertainment has diminished as a result, given the rise of Netflix and Amazon and the explosion in entertainment options that followed the merger.But there’s also a growing sense that such agreements are easily circumvented and that the government doesn’t have the resources to oversee hundreds of such limitations. The alternative is to demand divestitures, as the government has done during negotiations with AT&T. Such “structural” remedies, as they’re known, “are much easier than behavioral remedies to craft and enforce,” Professor Stucke said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Our goal in remedying unlawful transactions should be to let the competitive process play out,” he said. “Unfortunately, behavioral remedies often fail to do that. Instead of protecting the competition that might be lost in an unlawful merger, a behavioral remedy supplants competition with regulation.”Divestitures have long been the preferred remedy for horizontal mergers, where there’s an overlap between the two companies. Airlines, for example, may have to sell routes or airport gates where the two airlines compete; cable operators may have to sell operations in cities where both companies operate.A study by the Federal Trade Commission found that concerns about every vertical merger examined by the commission from 2006 to 2012 were resolved through “conduct remedies” rather than divestitures, and that all these remedies had been successful at protecting competition.AdvertisementThat hasn’t mollified a new generation of antitrust activists. Tim Wu, an antitrust professor at Columbia University and one of the leading proponents of a more intense scrutiny of media mergers, told me that the deal should be blocked on grounds that a combined megacompany could exert “broad anticompetitive effects.”Say, for example, that a combined AT&T-Time Warner aggressively raised prices for popular offerings like HBO and CNN. Rival distributors, such as cable companies, would have to pay much higher prices, passing the increases on to consumers, or drop the channels, forcing consumers who want them to turn to other distributors, such as AT&T, reinforcing its already commanding position in satellite, wireless and broadband distribution.This threat of higher prices and restricted consumer choice appears to be the theory the Justice Department is pursuing, according to people briefed on the negotiations.Further clouding any action is Mr. Trump’s outspoken animosity toward CNN. Antitrust enforcement decisions are supposed to be based solely on the facts and law, not on politics, and no one I spoke to could recall a president who so publicly inserted himself into an antitrust enforcement investigation. (While Richard Nixon notoriously meddled in antitrust enforcement in the 1970s, he kept his machinations secret, at least until they were exposed by Oval Office tape recordings.)Mr. Delrahim has pledged an independent review uninfluenced by politics. Professor Stucke noted that the investigation began during the Obama administration, and that “it’s unlikely senior leadership would go out on a limb to challenge the merger unless the staff had recommended it.”“They’re career professionals,” he said. “I’d start with the presumption the staff was diligent and followed the evidence.”An AT&T spokesman declined to comment, as did the Department of Justice.Asked this week whether there had been communications about the case with the White House, Attorney General Jeff Sessions declined to answer, fueling speculation that there may have been some.Should the case be filed and go to trial, that’s one mystery that will soon be resolved: Some of AT&T’s first subpoenas will no doubt go to the White House.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byThe surge in Democratic enthusiasm and activism driven by animosity to President Trump is proving to be a mixed blessing.In some cases, these challengers raise the threat of bitterly contested midterm primaries that could leave House and Senate nominees weakened for the general election.The Democratic National Committee, charged with a crucial organizational role in the coming presidential election, continues to struggle to regain standing with Sanders supporters after a series of conflicts in 2016 and 2017 over such matters as control of valuable donor lists and demands for a more progressive agenda.Clinton wrote that “attacks” Sanders made during the primary seasoncaused lasting damage, making it harder to unify progressives in the general election and paving the way for Trump’s “Crooked Hillary” campaign. I don’t know if that bothered Bernie or not.Clinton added that Sanders “didn’t get into the race to make sure a Democrat won the White House, he got in to disrupt the Democratic Party.”There is good evidence that defections by Sanders’ Democratic primary voters to Trump on Nov. 8 played a decisive role in Trump’s victory.Many of the current conflicts enlarge upon the ideological divisions that dominated the 2016 presidential primaries, with Hillary Clinton representing the centrist wing and Bernie Sanders the progressive wing.“The party is still this wrestling about its identity,” Longabaugh said. He suggested that Democrats are stalled by what he described as “a sort of rubbernecking, watching this 15-car pileup in the Republican Party” on the other side of the road while “we are stuck in traffic, not moving forward.”Despite the continuing ideological confusion, there are a number of positive signs for the Democratic Party.Not only have contributions from individuals (as opposed to political action committees) to the D.C.C.C. surged, but the amount raised from individuals is triple the $15.8 million raised by the National Republican Congressional Committee through the first seven months of this year.Signs of the stress the Democratic Party is under are evident in the degree of institutional fracturing.Our Revolution will empower the next generation of progressive leaders by inspiring and recruiting progressive candidates to run for offices across the entire spectrum of government.For candidates “inspired by the ‘political revolution,’ ” Our Revolution promises to providethe unparalleled digital tools, organizing knowledge and grassroots support successfully utilized throughout Senator Sanders’ campaign.Wariness, if not downright hostility, dominates relations between Our Revolution and the Democratic Party.Further compounding the conflict, Sanders has declined to share his donor lists with the Democratic Party.“We are working hard to regain trust,” Jess O’Connell, the new executive director of the D.N.C., said in a phone interview, although there appears to have been no letup in the tension between the party and the Sanders camp.The Nation asked:How will Our Revolution relate to the DNC, the DCCC, the DSCC, that kind of establishment that so many activists and politicians, including you, have frequently criticized?Her reply:I don’t think it is our job nor our obligation to fit in. It’s their job to fit in with us.Then:And what about the Democratic Party at large. Do you see Our Revolution working to bring some unity to factions in the party?Turner’s reply:No, not really. I want people to be unified. I would say that the board of directors wants that too, but we’re here for a very specific purpose, and that is to help the everyday Americans in this country who feel left behind.Two months later, in August, relations remained hostile.Turner declined my requests for an interview. But in a sense her views on the Democratic establishment are moderate compared to those voiced by groups and individuals further to the left.In the view of Justice Democrats:The Democratic Party is broken, and the corporate wing of the party is responsible. By aligning with Wall Street over working men and women, the Democratic Party has allowed Republicans to take over most state legislatures, most governorships, Congress, and the presidency.I’d rather have 44 or 45 awesome Democrats who are lock step together than 44 or 45 really awesome Democrats and three to four weak-kneed individuals who are going to dilute the party.I spoke with Zaheed by phone. He stood by his comment to The A.P. He described himself as a “die-hard Democrat” but he wants “a Democratic Party that is going to stand up to corporations and big business.”Insofar as these intraparty power struggles are fought out in primary elections, the more passionately committed the faction, the greater its advantage. Ideologically committed voters turn out in higher percentages in primaries than less ideological moderates.In practice, such a victory would leave the party in ideological limbo. Could Sanders or one of his revolutionary offspring actually govern? Could such a politician win against a candidate other than Donald Trump? Can the leftward movement of Democratic voters find an echo among independent and moderate voters in the general electorate?These fundamental questions are very hard to answer. Trump or no Trump, they will continue to plague the Democratic Party, not just for the next two election cycles, but on into the foreseeable future.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byJudge George B. Daniels of United States District Court in Manhattan found that the plaintiffs had failed to show that they had suffered as a result of specific actions by Mr. Trump intended to drum up business for his enterprises. Even before Mr. Trump took office, the judge said, “he had amassed wealth and fame and was competing against” the plaintiffs.“It is only natural that interest in his properties has generally increased since he became president,” the judge said. Moreover, Judge Daniels said, customers might be patronizing Mr. Trump’s hotels and his hotels’ restaurants because of price or quality — reasons totally unrelated to his presidency.Beyond that, the judge found, the emoluments clauses of the Constitution are intended to protect the country against presidential corruption from foreign influences or financial incentives that might be offered by either states or the federal government. They were not meant to protect businesses from competition from presidentially owned enterprises, he ruled.Were that the case, Judge Daniels said, the Constitution would not have given Congress the power to allow a president to receive a foreign gift or benefit without considering how the president’s business rivals might be affected.Judge Daniels also said that it was up to Congress, not the courts, to decide whether Mr. Trump had violated the Constitution by accepting a gift or benefit from a foreign government.“This court will not tell Congress how it should or should not assert its power in responding the defendant’s alleged violations of the foreign Emoluments Clause,” he wrote. “In short, unless and until Congress speaks on this issue, plaintiffs’ foreign Emoluments Clause claims are not ripe for adjudication.”In a statement, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonprofit legal watchdog group that initiated the lawsuit, called the ruling “a setback.” But Noah Bookbinder, the organization’s executive director, said, “We will not walk away from this serious and ongoing constitutional violation.”The ruling is believed to be the first in 230 years interpreting what the constitutional framers meant by the emoluments clauses.Two other lawsuits accusing Mr. Trump of similar violations are still pending. They claim Mr. Trump has illegally profiteered from his businesses in a number of ways, including accepting payments from foreign officials who patronize his hotels and accepting trademark approvals from foreign governments for his company’s goods and services.The suits are part of a coordinated effort by critics of the president to force Mr. Trump to either sell his business holdings or place them in a blind trust. Mr. Trump’s opponents hope that at least one case will proceed to a stage where plaintiffs will be allowed to demand documentation of Mr. Trump’s finances, including his tax returns.A lawsuit brought in June by the attorneys general of Maryland and the District of Columbia accused Mr. Trump of depriving facilities owned by their governments of business. Some legal experts have suggested that case may be less likely to be dismissed out of hand because Maryland is considered a “coequal sovereign” of the president, giving it stronger legal grounds to sue.The third federal lawsuit was filed in June by nearly 200 Democratic members of Congress. Some legal authorities consider that suit to be a purely political move, with little likelihood of success.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsEven after eight years of economic recovery and steady private-sector job growth, wages for most Americans have hardly budged. It is tempting to think that wage stagnation is intractable, a result of long-term trends, like automation and globalization, that government is powerless to do anything about.In fact, a growing body of evidence pins much of the blame on a specific culprit, one for which proven legal weapons already exist. But they are not being used.The culprit is “monopsony power.” This term is used by economists to refer to the ability of an employer to suppress wages below the efficient or perfectly competitive level of compensation. In the more familiar case of monopoly, a large seller — like a cable company — is able to demand high prices for poor service because consumers have no other choice. It turns out that many corporations possess bargaining power over their workers, not just over their consumers. Their workers accept low wages and substandard working conditions because few alternative job opportunities exist for them or because switching jobs is costly. In other words, in the labor market, effectively a small number of employers are competing for their labor.The studies show that common features of the labor market give enormous bargaining advantages to employers. Because most people sink roots in their communities, they are reluctant to quit their job and move to a job that is far away. Because workplaces differ in terms of their location and conditions, people have trouble comparing them, which means that one cannot easily “comparison shop” for jobs. And thanks to a wave of consolidation, industries are increasingly dominated by a small number of huge companies, which means that workers have fewer choices among employers in their area.When employers exercise monopsonistic power, wages are suppressed, jobs are left unfilled, and economic growth suffers. Unions used to offset employer monopsony power, but unions now represent only 7 percent of private sector workers, down from a peak of 35 percent in the 1950s. Combating the practices that employers use to monopsonize the labor market can lead to higher wages, more jobs and faster economic growth.While the movement against no-poaching agreements is a good first step, much more can be done to counter monopsonistic practices. First, the Justice Department and the courts need to make clear that no-poaching agreements are illegal even when they take place within franchises. Democratic Senators Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker are preparing to propose such a bill next week.Second, Congress should bar employers from subjecting low-income workers to noncompete clauses. These clauses serve no lawful business purpose when workers do not receive substantial training, while they cause significant hardship. A few states ban or significantly restrict noncompetes, but the federal government must step in.Antitrust reform to address labor market abuses is one of those rare issues that could secure bipartisan agreement. Democrats should support reform because it would help workers and lower-income families. Antitrust violations are also counter to the free-market ideals that Republicans claim to hold.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseAmazon will probably narrow the list to a group of finalists before conducting site visits and meeting with elected officials and community leaders. It has said it expects to reach a decision next year.Still, Amazon’s stated objectives and past behavior — along with interviews with people working with the company on the selection process (none of whom were willing to be named because of their Amazon ties) and corporate governance and location experts — yield some insights into what factors the retailer values most highly and where the new headquarters may end up. (An Amazon spokesman declined to comment.)This means far more than an attractive building or campus. Amazon prides itself on having its existing headquarters embedded in the urban fabric of Seattle. Just this month, the company said it would take over the top six floors of the Macy’s department store downtown — a move rich in irony, given how Macy’s has struggled in competing with online retailers — and it will occupy all of the office space at the Rainier Square development that is planned for the city’s downtown area.The idea of inhabiting the sort of self-contained suburban corporate parks so common in Silicon Valley seems anathema to Amazon. The company has said that 20 percent of its employees in Seattle don’t use motorized transport to get to work. Fifty-five percent walk, ride bikes or use public transportation. Fifteen percent live in the ZIP code where they work.Amazon deliberately provides cafeteria space for only a third of its employees, which encourages people to venture out of the office. The company provides retail space on the ground floor of its Seattle buildings and tries not to rent to generic national chains (its headquarters has a dozen local coffee roasters.) It has developed a sense of the kind of urban community that attracts and retains highly educated, talented and creative workers.In practical terms, this kind of dense, vibrant and architecturally distinctive urban environment exists mostly in cities that developed before the advent of the automobile, industrial cities in the Midwest and Northeast and older cities in Canada.Cities like Pittsburgh, Detroit and Baltimore are rich in underutilized historic buildings and neighborhoods that could be imaginatively repurposed, offering Amazon the opportunity to be a transformative force, something that seems to be part of the company’s DNA.Cyril Bouquet, a professor at IMD, an international business school in Lausanne, Switzerland, and an expert in companies with dual headquarters, said the choice of a second headquarters sends an important symbolic message.“Amazon has the opportunity to help build and shape a city and region,” he said. “That’s easier in a Detroit than a San Francisco. It’s much different than just tapping the talent that’s already there. Amazon will attract people and other companies that are inspired by that.”Next on Amazon’s wish list are capital and operating costs” and “incentives,” which Amazon identifies as “high priority” considerations. That is as it should be, said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “Amazon’s first obligation is to its investors,” Professor Elson said, which means finding “the most cost-effective city in which to locate a second headquarters,” one that “will produce the most value for the company.”Most contenders have been secretive about their bids, but the incentives will probably be substantial. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and state lawmakers, for instance, have offered a $7 billion package of tax breaks on behalf of Newark. Any city that really wants Amazon will have to ante up, and most will find the wherewithal to do so.New York City, with a score of 104.7, and San Francisco (104.5) are two of the most expensive cities in the country, making them long shots. (Seattle, at 100.8, is just above the baseline.) Boston, at 101.2, would probably barely make the cut. Washington’s score is 99.4.The lowest-cost American cities are mostly in the Sunbelt; Austin’s score is 96.2. But many older industrial cities also offer cost advantages: Cincinnati (94), Baltimore (96.5), Pittsburgh (97), Chicago (98.3) and Philadelphia (99.8) are all below the baseline. Thanks to the strong dollar (which could change over time), Canadian cities fare especially well: Montreal’s score is 85.2; Toronto’s is 85.6. Both cities also have vibrant urban cores and have emphasized Canada’s talent-friendly immigration policies.“Labor Force” is third on Amazon’s list. The company appears to be bumping up against the limits of Seattle’s talent pool.The top cities on that list are San Francisco and the Bay Area, Seattle and New York — no surprises there. But other cities also fare well: Washington is No. 4, Toronto is No. 6, Boston is No. 9 and Baltimore is No. 11.Conversely, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Milwaukee and St. Louis all rank so low it is hard to see them as viable contenders.Detroit, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh fall somewhere in the middle, but could still be competitive. Amazon appears less concerned with how many tech workers already live and work in an area than with its ability to attract the talent it wants. Seattle was hardly a tech magnet before Amazon, Microsoft and then a host of once-fledgling technology firms set up operations there. Amazon expects its arrival in a new city to have a similar impact.Amazon adds that “a strong university system is required.”Many contending cities offer first-rate universities, including highly ranked programs in technology. Boston is a standout, with Harvard, M.I.T., Boston College, Boston University, but Baltimore offers Johns Hopkins University and Toronto has the University of Toronto and York University.Amazon cites logistics as “critically important,” specifically the presence of an international airport that offers direct flights to Seattle, Washington, New York and San Francisco. (These cities are likely to have a large Amazon presence no matter who wins the competition for the second headquarters.)In addition to major airports, Boston, Baltimore and Philadelphia are all on Amtrak’s northeast rail corridor, with easy rail access to New York and Washington.“Community cultural fit” and “community quality of life” are last on Amazon’s list of preferences. Along with the usual amenities, Amazon specifically mentions “a diverse population” and, again, “excellent institutions of higher education.” If weather and independent coffee roasters are important, Austin would be a good fit.Most major cities offer an array of cultural, culinary, recreational and sports attractions, and any that they lack will most likely spring up if Amazon arrives.That puts a premium on diversity and education, factors important in attracting a talented work force. Given Amazon’s vocal support for diversity and inclusion, it seems unlikely it would choose a city or state perceived as intolerant or that has moved to curb civil rights, like North Carolina’s widely publicized effort to curb gay and transgender rights.There are obviously many variables still to be assessed, but based on these criteria and the weight I expect Amazon to place on them, here are my finalists, in descending order: Pittsburgh, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Toronto, Chicago and Boston.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byFine Arts & ExhibitsThey were living with them, agonizing over them every day. Mr. Calzadilla’s father’s construction business had collapsed as government contracts dwindled. He was paying taxes on land he could not use. His heavy trucks and Caterpillar tractors were rusting, losing value.To check out the site for their piece, they flew to Miami a little more than a year ago. They found themselves in a vibrant, throbbing construction site in one of Miami’s most glamorous concentrations of commerce and wealth. Crews in yellow hard hats were pouring concrete and hefting bundles of reinforcing steel for the new building.Hermes, Louis Vuitton and Christian Louboutin shared streets in the design district with airy showrooms of Italian and French designer furniture, kitchen cabinets and closets and a shop featuring crystal chandeliers.It was everything that Puerto Rico was not. And in the clash, the themes for their new work rushed together: prosperity and poverty, liberty and limitations, so many promises; United States policies toward Puerto Rico and Cuba, where Mr. Calzadilla and his father had been born, opportunity, dreams and disappointment. Promise. It all added up, they said, to “Unspecified Promise.”“The site echoed very clearly the story of construction, development and displacement that my father had been telling us about,” Mr. Calzadilla, 46, said by phone from Puerto Rico.Their work is going to be massive. It will have two main elements: one of the elder Calzadilla’s faded and scratched, mustard-color Caterpillar tractors and a 15-foot-high, 55-ton boulder of American black granite. The big machine, called a backhoe or digger, has wide, knobby tires almost as tall as a man, and steel scoops front and rear for digging holes and shoving earth around. They are sawing the machine and the boulder in half, polishing the sheared face of the boulder to a mirror sheen, then attaching the machine to the stone.Much of Ms. Allora and Mr. Calzadilla’s work has combined sculpture with performance art. In “Unspecified Promise,” the museum audience members become the performers, changing the perspective and shape of reflections in the mirrorlike granite as they move around the sculpture. The mirror, the artists say, gives the impression that the whole machine is there. “So many promises are illusions, and we’re trying to make that tangible,” Ms. Allora said. Whether people see what Ms. Allora and Mr. Calzadilla see is not their goal. “It will depend on your perspective, your experience, your role,” she said. “Your eyes.”“They’re among the most thoughtful and progressive and innovative artists working in contemporary art today,” said Kathy Halbreich, an associate director and curator at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In early November, Ms. Halbreich is moving to a new job as the executive director of the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation in Manhattan.They have a nearly 8-year-old daughter, Isabella. “He keeps asking me to marry him,” Ms. Allora said, “and I keep saying ‘no;’ three times, I think. I don’t want to jinx anything. There was a point. Then we just got too busy.”Most artists work solo. And that may not be hard to understand. “We argue all the time,” Ms. Allora said. “We constantly have to figure out how to seduce the other person, to make your idea appeal to the other person. You have to find a place where the other person can feel comfortable in the common outcome. It’s like two people having to wear the same shirt.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIn December 1967, an American Navy vessel called the Pueblo departed Pearl Harbor, heading for Yokosuka, Japan. It was the last time the ship, a dilapidated former cargo carrier now operating as an American intelligence collector, would see the United States.In January, the Pueblo began its first mission, conducting electronic intelligence operations off the coast of North Korea. Then, on Jan. 23, 1968 — 50 years ago today — the ship came under attack by North Korean forces. The slow and poorly armed American ship was badly overmatched. The captain soon surrendered, with one dead and numerous wounded. North Korean forces quickly boarded the Pueblo and towed the ship and her 83 crewmen to Wonsan.The men spent a brutal year in North Korean prison camps where they were beaten, tortured and used as propaganda tools, before being released a few days before Christmas 1968. The ship is still in North Korea, serving as one of the country’s leading tourist attractions.The story of the Pueblo incident — long forgotten by most Americans — is certainly important on its own merits. Beyond the details of the attack, however, the crisis also serves as a larger example of how America’s war in Vietnam had ramifications far beyond Southeast Asia.AdvertisementWonsan and Hanoi were 2,000 miles apart, but the war in Vietnam hovered over the Pueblo seizure from the beginning. When news of the attack reached the White House, the Johnson administration instinctively pointed a finger of blame not at Pyongyang but at a larger Communist conspiracy. The president told his advisers that the incident was “related to the whole picture” adding that he “would not be surprised if something happened in Berlin to coincide with what is going on in Vietnam and in Korea.”AdvertisementThe Soviets soon began sending back-channel signals that they had not been involved, but the Johnson administration refused to accept the possibility that North Korea might have acted independently. Instead, President Lyndon Johnson and his advisers continued to search for larger Cold War connections to explain the attack, and soon found them in Vietnam. The director of the C.I.A., Richard Helms, warned that the North had acted for two reasons: “to hinder the movement of Koreans to South Vietnam and to harass the U.S. in its conduct of the war in Vietnam.”Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Nitze speculated that the attack had been intended to pressure the United States into taking “a weaker position on Vietnam negotiations.” When the North Vietnamese launched the Tet offensive a week after the seizure, the link between the two seemed confirmed. “The North Koreans,” Johnson wrote, “were aware of the Tet offensive in Vietnam, which was scheduled to take place eight days later. They were trying to divert U.S. military resources from Vietnam and pressure the South Koreans into recalling their two divisions from that area.”Recently released materials from Communist bloc archives, however, demonstrate that there was no conspiracy behind the Pueblo seizure. The North Koreans had acted alone, and for reasons that reflected internal dynamics within Pyongyang rather than the exigencies of the Cold War. The country had launched this and other aggressive actions on the peninsula to gain internal propaganda that emphasized the strength of Kim Il Sung’s leadership and to rally the people behind him during difficult economic and political times.In fact, not only was there no larger conspiracy afoot, but the Pueblo attack actually drove a wedge between the North and its Communist allies, who resented Pyongyang’s risky behavior and its reluctance to provide information. In April, the Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev blasted the North in a speech at the Soviet Party Plenum. “The measures taken in this case by the government of the D.P.R.K. appear unusually harsh,” he declared. Moscow had demanded that North Korea “show reserve, not to give the Americans an excuse for widening provocations, to settle the incident by political means.” But, he said, “the Korean comrades maintained a fairly extreme position and did not show any inclination toward the settlement of the incident.” Other members of the Communist bloc similarly resented Kim’s provocations. “In newspaper articles and statements, we were on their side,” the East German ambassador to Pyongyang later explained, “but not in reality.”American political leaders, however, failed to consider the possibility of an internal motive and instinctively sought solutions rooted in conventional Cold War approaches that presumed a larger master hand was behind North Korea’s behavior. Throughout 1968, American policymakers negotiated with North Korean representatives but never fully accepted the idea that this diplomatic effort could be separated from the larger Cold War struggle. Accordingly, they rejected any resolution that might weaken their efforts on other fronts, particularly in Vietnam. “The great danger that we must avoid is that the Soviets and the North Vietnamese will interpret something that we do as a sign of weakness,” outgoing Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara explained. “If we show weakness and are not firm, I think it will prolong the Vietnam War substantially.” Negotiations for the prisoners in North Korea were thus held hostage by events in Saigon.This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Beyond the immediate fears about sending signs of weakness, American policymakers also failed to consider the possibility that they might be able to drive a wedge between the North Koreans and the rest of the Communist bloc even further. The North’s relations within its allies had fallen so low by 1968 that it was engaging in border skirmishes with the Chinese while also alienating its other allies, and yet the United States continued to negotiate as if it faced a unified monolith.“As galling as it is,” a National Security Council staff member advised in March, “I fear that on this Pueblo case we may have to lick our wounds, wait out release of the crew, and wait our chances for action when the advantage is more ours. The only way I see where we could act sooner would be in Vietnam — presumably by mining Haiphong Harbor. North Korean actions seem partly designed to aid the Communist Vietnam effort and it is important that we not permit that to happen.” Unable to separate Vietnam from Korea, American leaders had thus sent its diplomats to do battle for the Pueblo crewmen in a badly weakened position.AdvertisementAmerica’s diplomatic response was not the only part of the Pueblo story that was influenced by Vietnam. The attack on the ship sent both the American military and the general public into a frenzy. Demands for violent retaliation echoed through the halls of the Pentagon and the streets of America’s towns. The office of the commander in chief of the Pacific fleet recommended sending a destroyer into Wonsan to do “whatever was necessary” to retrieve the ship and crew, and the commander of the United Nations forces in South Korea, an American, called for a nuclear ultimatum.The public was equally aggressive. A Gallup poll showed those choosing force outnumbered those choosing diplomacy by almost two to one. “There should be no word mincing in our demand for the swift and safe return of both ship and crew,” The Buffalo Daily News wrote, “nor should North Korea be deprived for long of the measured dose of retribution her sudden belligerency has so emphatically asked for.”The military options, however, soon ran into a number of practical obstacles, including the strong North Korean defenses in the Wonsan area, the risk of conflict with the Soviets or Chinese, and concerns for the safety of the Pueblo crewmen. Hovering over all of the discussions, though, were the demands of fighting the war in Vietnam. Begrudgingly, military leaders soon recognized that opening another front in East Asia would be a terrible tactical decision. Within a week of the attack, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs offered Johnson almost a dozen military options, ranging from mining North Korean ports to striking targets with air and naval bombardments, but admitted that he did not find any of them “particularly attractive.” Accordingly, military options were discarded. “One war at a time,” Under Secretary of State Nicholas Katzenbach said, “is enough.”Even the public’s response to the crisis was shaped by events in Vietnam. For a week after the incident, the Pueblo was the focus of national attention. Newspapers ran profiles of brave sailors captured by the evil Communists. Songs about the Pueblo graced the airwaves, cars displayed bumper stickers about the ship, and telegrams from private citizens offering to assist in rescue attempts flooded the White House. “These men,” promised the State Department, “are not, nor will they ever become, forgotten men.”Yet, when the Tet offensive exploded on Jan. 30, American eyes quickly returned to Vietnam. Soon, Walter Cronkite called for an honorable exit from Vietnam, a national debate exploded about the military’s request for more troops, and Johnson announced that largely because of Vietnam, he would not run for re-election. In the haze of such Vietnam-related tumult, the Pueblo simply faded from the nation’s consciousness.Supporters of the crew formed a national “Remember the Pueblo Committee” and offered a rallying cry to “Remember the Pueblo,” to try to keep the men in the public eye, but to no avail. The crew, despite the State Department’s promise, had indeed become forgotten men, lost to the more overwhelming conflict 2,000 miles away. And despite suffering from serious physical and emotional problems resulting from their year in captivity, the men would remain forgotten when they returned to the United States in December 1968. Quickly, they were drummed from the service, ignored by the general public and left to fend for themselves as they struggled to reintegrate with society, often with disastrous results.Even more significant than these immediate connections, however, was the impact that the convergence of Vietnam and the Pueblo incident had on shaping the long-term American commitment to South Korea. American aid to the South had been declining for years, and America’s military presence was coming under scrutiny as well. These efforts were stymied, however, by South Korea’s decision to commit troops to the American effort in Vietnam. By 1967, South Korea had provided tens of thousands of combat troops, and in return, a grateful President Johnson had been ignoring the drawdown proposals. The attack on the Pueblo now offered the South a chance to strengthen the relationship even more.President Park Chung Hee of South Korea and other leaders suddenly began hinting that they might withdraw their troops from Vietnam to face the increased North Korean aggression. Johnson, who desperately wanted to portray Vietnam as an international effort, was determined to keep them on board. Accordingly, he pushed through an enormous military assistance package for the South. “We need to give whatever aid is necessary to South Korea,” he told congressional leaders. “They are among our best allies.” Johnson took other measures to placate Park, including pledging to appoint a South Korean as deputy commander of the United Nations military forces in Korea, promising to increase South Korean access to business opportunities in Vietnam and working to increase economic connections between the nations. In the long run, of course, South Korean forces fighting in Vietnam could not prevent America’s defeat. They did, however, restore a bond that had been weakening and help cement a special relationship between the countries that still exists.Fifty years after the attack on the Pueblo, the ship’s story remains the tragic tale of 83 American men and a doomed spy ship. But it is also a story of how the impact of America’s war in Vietnam went beyond Vietnam in ways that hindered good diplomacy elsewhere, ruined the lives of people far from the front lines and played a vital role in shaping the future of East Asia.Mitchell B. Lerner is an associate professor of history and director of the Institute for Korean Studies at the Ohio State University. he is the author of “The Pueblo Incident: A Spy Ship and the Failure of American Foreign Policy.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementTwo weeks ago, my smartphone shut down because of a low battery as I was about to board a flight to Europe. That seemed odd, given that I had barely used it that day. I plugged it in on the plane, but seven hours later, it still wasn’t functioning. When I arrived at my hotel I tried a different charger, to no avail. The phone was dead — terminally so, it turned out.I hadn’t brought a laptop, so I had no access to the internet or email. I had no camera, no guidebooks, no maps.For the next 10 days I lived without my phone or any other connection to the digital world. There were indeed many compensations. But it was hard to shake a free-floating anxiety that some disaster loomed. (How would I retrieve my return flight reservations from a nonworking cellphone?)AdvertisementLately the big internet companies have come under a barrage of criticism for invading privacy, carrying fake news, spreading hate messages (and selling ads against them) and undermining American democracy. What I learned is that, for better or worse, they have already so changed the world that life without them is all but impossible outside a monastery.Road maps, a mainstay of my pre-cellphone trips to Europe, were nowhere to be found, nor were the bookstores that used to sell them. The rental car agency in Milan offered a guide for getting out of the airport, but that was about it. Everyone assumes you have access to Google Maps.Once you’re off the major highways, Italian roads are a spider web connected by roundabouts, bristling with signs pointing to the nearest tiny villages but lacking any route numbers.AdvertisementThe tried-and-true method of asking for directions prompted some human interaction and gave my traveling companion the opportunity to practice his Italian. But it was a reminder that human beings are often unreliable. The rental car agent in Milan gave us directions to Siena via Genoa, a route, we later learned, that added about two hours to the trip.Trying to find a house in the Tuscan countryside by asking passers-by was futile. No one in rural Italy seems to use street addresses, which, in any event, don’t correspond in any rational way to actual streets.Living in the moment isn’t so great when you’re lost.While I had no phone of my own, others with me had theirs, and I had to rely on them on several occasions, starting with simply finding our house. We had to call the housekeeper for directions (three times).After that, I relied on borrowed phones, and we used Google Maps for navigation.I shared my experience this week with Adam Alter, an associate professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business and author of “Irresistible: The Rise of Addictive Technology and the Business of Keeping Us Hooked.”“One problem for people who choose to be without phones is, as you found, that people expect you to have one, and infrastructure is designed with the knowledge that almost everyone does,” Mr. Alter said. “You’re borderline forced to carry one for basic utility even if you’d prefer not to.”Without access to texts or email, I couldn’t see or respond to any messages, no matter how important. I waited three days before breaking down and (again) borrowing a cellphone to check email. But to gain access to my email from an unfamiliar device required a code sent via text to — where else? — my dead cellphone.Once I gave that up, I was fine, perhaps because I didn’t feel any guilt — it wasn’t my fault the phone failed and I couldn’t check messages. For others, this may be difficult: Mr. Alter’s book reports that checking emails has become a widespread addiction.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At first I missed my phone’s camera feature. I was on holiday in a beautiful country, after all. But after a few days I stopped thinking about documenting the trip and simply enjoyed it.Without internet access, I had no access to travel mainstays like TripAdvisor or OpenTable. But there were some old guidebooks at the house where we stayed, and major historic sites, tourist attractions and even restaurants don’t change much in a place like Italy.AdvertisementI found it’s not hard to sniff out a promising restaurant that appeals to your personal taste, as opposed to crowdsourced recommendations. We made some wonderful discoveries. And afterward there were no emails asking me to review the experience (and provide sites like TripAdvisor with free editorial copy).Mr. Alter pointed out that “this sort of serendipity is often the route to novel, exciting, trip-making experiences.”He added, “Phones overschedule and over regiment our lives, which robs us of these opportunities.”I quickly grew accustomed to having no news, stock market quotes or weather forecasts. I’d never want to live permanently without them, but checking out for 10 days was therapeutic.I read nothing about Donald Trump.Still, I broke down midweek when the housekeeper asked me what I knew about Harvey Weinstein. The accusations of the movie producer’s serial sexual misconduct had broken the day after I left, and were now blanketing Italian media. I knew nothing. So I borrowed a phone and read The New York Times account and then The New Yorker piece that followed. Both were riveting but interfered with what had, until then, been blissfully untroubled sleep.After returning the rental car in Milan, I realized that no phone meant no Uber app. That meant we did a lot of walking in what turns out to be a fascinating city. And my anxieties about my return trip proved unfounded. I skipped the check-in kiosks at the airport, went to the check-in counter and got an old-fashioned paper boarding pass with minimum fuss.I’d never leave home without a working smartphone again. But denied access to the internet, I had time to read several books. I focused more on the people with me and the beauty of my surroundings. I was more open to unplanned experiences. I had time for self-reflection. I’d like to think that, on future trips, I’d use the phone only when essential.It turns out there’s an app to help people do that.“Recently, I spent two weeks in a place without cellphone coverage and had a similar experience to you,” Mr. Holesh told me. “It was really inconvenient not to have Maps, but refreshing to not constantly be worrying about what’s going on.Advertisement“It was literally the longest stretch of time I’ve not accessed the internet in 15 years,” he continued. “The first few days were tough, but after that, I got used to the lack of connectivity and loved it.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAddressing patrolmen and officers assembled in the Van Nostrand Theatre on Long Island on July 28, Trump was fully aware that his remarks would prove incendiary:When you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon — you just see them thrown in, rough — I said, please don’t be too nice. (Laughter.) Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, don’t hit their head and they’ve just killed somebody — don’t hit their head. I said, you can take the hand away, okay?Underlying Trump’s defiance of law enforcement norms is a calculated strategy advocating the use of force, with the twofold goal of pushing liberals back on their heels and affirming the instincts of his most avid supporters.Trump’s repeated attacks on liberal orthodoxy highlight how Democrats are themselves bound — hogtied is not too strong a word — by the conflicting needs and goals of the various constituencies in their multiracial, multiethnic coalition — a coalition that has been vulnerable to wedge issue attacks for 50 years.The survey asked whether seven statements apply more to Democrats or Republicans — “will take the right approach on health care,” “understands what it is like for regular Americans;” “will fight for people like you,” “will reduce the power of special interests in Congress,” “will cut taxes for the middle class,” “will do more to ensure that people are rewarded for hard work” and “will help improve the economy and create jobs.”Democrats held the advantage on one of the seven, health care, and that was by four points. Republicans were ahead on every other issue. Most important, Republicans led Democrats by a solid 19 points on ensuring that people are rewarded for hard work and by a devastating 35 points on improving the economy and creating jobs — just what “A Better Deal” claims to do.When Schumer, Pelosi and other Democrats seek to make the case for a “better deal,” they face an audience primed to disbelieve every word they say.I asked Pete Brodnitz, the founder of Expedition Strategies, one of the firms that conducted this survey, whether he thought there was a link between Trump’s emphasis on immigration, Latino gangs, and crime and the Democrats’ efforts to shift the agenda to economic policy.“This has been building for months but it has become pronounced recently,” he wrote in an email. The Trump administration hopes “Democrats will react by defending immigration and look ‘soft on gangs,’ ” aware that “if they push the envelope on this issue they can get coverage for their efforts and drown out Democratic efforts to change the topic.”Brodnitz described Trump’s tactics as offering “ideas that sound really outlandish but that they believe have popular support — at least with their core voters” and that the Long Island speech was based on “the hope that Democrats would look more concerned about criminals than about crime and its victims.”To put it mildly, it has been difficult for the Democrats to recruit key white voters to consider an economic agenda in the face of concerted efforts by the Trump campaign and his administration to shift the focus to crime.I asked a prominent political scientist — a man with generally moderate views — for his reaction to Trump’s comments in the Long Island speech. His answer surprised me. Requesting anonymity in order to speak candidly, he replied:I think, yeah, a lot of people, whites anyway, think that the police are too constrained. When I watch the anarchists tear up Oakland, which happens pretty regularly, a part of me thinks “where are the 1968 Chicago police when we really need them?” These thugs behave the way they do in part because there are no consequences. Also, we see a lot of cases on TV where someone is resisting arrest, the police wrestle him down and hit him a few times, and then there are complaints about excessive force. Heavens’ sakes, if someone doesn’t comply with an order, what are the police supposed to do?One question Haidt’s survey asks respondents is whether they agree or disagree with the idea that “a criminal should be made to suffer in the same way that his victim suffered.”Haidt said “progressives strongly reject it, and it correlates fairly well with politics — the farther right you are, the more you endorse it.”What, then, does Pinker make of Trump’s Long Island speech?It appeals to one of our worst angels, the desire for “rough justice” — quick and brutal revenge inflicted on a suspected wrongdoer. The ultimate evolutionary rationale for revenge, vendettas, blood feuds, mob violence, summary justice, lynching, vigilantes, deadly ethnic riots, the code of the streets, and other forms of rough justice is deterrence: if a person anticipates getting beaten up for exploiting people, he’ll think twice about exploiting them.Trump, in Pinker’s view, has focused on the most primitive and regressive emotions among voters:So yes, Trump is wisecracking about overturning millennia of progress in taming our brutish instincts for instant retaliation, and discarding the norms and institutions of justice that our better angels have crafted and perfected.Pinker sees this as part of an ongoing struggle.The appeal of regressive impulses is perennial. The forces of liberalism, modernity, cosmopolitanism, the open society, and Enlightenment values always have to push against our innate tribalism, authoritarianism, and thirst for vengeance.And yes,at times in history the darker forces prevail — the two world wars, the American crime wave from the 1960s to early 1990s, the rise of civil war in the developing world over that same period. These darker forces, moreover, are not just raw instincts, but often rationalized in ideologies.The connection may not seem obvious at first, but Pinker’s comments are directly relevant to the Democratic Party’s attempt to counter Trump with liberal economic policies.Not only is their adversary a man ungoverned by rule or tradition, but he is a man who has taken “our impulses of authoritarianism and tribalism,” to quote Pinker one last time, and constructed “an edifice of rationalization around them.”This puts the Democrats in a dangerous position. The more they succeed in pushing Trump up against a wall, politically speaking, the more they risk the possibility that the he will inflict real damage, whether it is hostile engagement abroad or increasingly aggressive attacks on democratic institutions at home.It is ominous that Trump has already hit upon the use of force as his preferred solution when confronting domestic law-and-order issues. One hates to think of what a man with his mind-set can do with a nuclear arsenal and the world as his stage.the strange specter of an American president’s seeming affection for strongmen and authoritarians created such a cognitive dissonance among my generation of conservatives — who had come of age under existential threat from the Soviet Union — that it was almost impossible to believe.Conservativeshave maintained an unnerving silence as instability has ensued. To carry on in the spring of 2017 as if what was happening was anything approaching normalcy required a determined suspension of critical faculties.What Flake recognizes, and what Democrats are only coming to realize, is that Trump represents a systemic assault on the legitimacy of America’s democratic processes, an attack that needs to be countered by far more that a modest collection of economic policies organized under the rubric “a better deal.”Flake’s open defection is an important step. If it is to become a serious problem for Trump, Flake’s Republican colleagues — Susan Collins, Bob Corker, Lindsey Graham, John McCain, Lisa Murkowksi, Rob Portman and Ben Sasse come to mind — will have to join him and not just one vote at a time. For a challenge to Trump to be effective, Republicans’ “unnerving silence” will have to crack.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS