AdvertisementSupported byThe case of Reza Zarrab in federal court in Manhattan has been far from routine.Mr. Zarrab, a gold trader from Turkey charged with conspiring to violate United States sanctions on Iran, has been described by prosecutors as having considerable wealth and political influence. Even Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has weighed in, criticizing the prosecution and raising the matter last year with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. during talks at the United Nations.Now, negotiations in the case have taken on a new dimension, deepening Mr. Erdogan’s involvement and also broadening to include Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York City, and Michael B. Mukasey, an attorney general in President George W. Bush’s administration.Instead, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey have sought to meet with Trump administration officials — over the prosecutors — to discuss a potential resolution of the case, according to new court filings on Friday. The two men have also traveled to Turkey to meet with Mr. Erdogan to discuss how such a disposition might be reached — a trip that Attorney General Jeff Sessions was told about, the new filings indicate.The roles of Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey came into clearer focus in the filings as one of Mr. Zarrab’s lawyers, Benjamin Brafman, and the prosecutors wrote to the judge, with each side questioning the other’s approach.The letters, taken together, indicate that on Feb. 24, Mr. Giuliani called Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan at the time, and told him about the planned trip to Turkey. The letters also indicate that Mr. Mukasey had told Mr. Sessions about the trip.The government’s letter said that on March 24, a lawyer for Mr. Zarrab, apparently Mr. Brafman, met with prosecutors and confirmed that Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey had traveled to Turkey to meet Mr. Erdogan “to discuss a possible disposition” of this case.The prosecutors argued that the judge, Richard M. Berman of Federal District Court, was “entitled to better understand” the roles of Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey and should take steps to ensure that Mr. Zarrab was fully aware of any potential conflicts of interest that might result from their representation.Mr. Brafman, in his letter on Friday, said the prosecutors were “not entitled to know what Messrs. Giuliani and Mukasey are attempting to do in their efforts to assist the defendant.”“That information quite frankly is none of the government’s business,” Mr. Brafman wrote, citing lawyer-client privilege.He said prosecutors had raised the issue “to attract media attention in the hope of undermining the efforts of counsel to structure a resolution to this case without the direct involvement of the Southern District at this time.”“Neither the government nor even the court most respectfully has the right to know precisely what their role(s) are or may be in the future,” Mr. Brafman added.“If the government has the temerity to even intimate that Messrs. Giuliani or Mukasey are engaging in any inappropriate conduct, then let them come out and say it,” Mr. Brafman continued. And if that were the case, he added, why would Mr. Giuliani have personally notified Mr. Bharara before the trip, and why would Mr. Mukasey “have informed Attorney General Sessions of their efforts?”Judge Berman has scheduled a hearing for Tuesday to address the issues.In its letter, Mr. Kim’s office noted that Mr. Giuliani’s firm had served as a registered agent of Turkey. The prosecutors said that meant Greenberg Traurig appeared to be simultaneously representing Mr. Zarrab and the Turkish government — “with apparently its own strong interest (separate from Mr. Zarrab’s) in the proceeding before this court,” a seeming reference to Mr. Erdogan’s meeting with Mr. Zarrab’s lawyers.A Greenberg Traurig spokeswoman, asked to comment, said that neither Mr. Giuliani nor anyone else from the firm involved in Mr. Zarrab’s representation had a role in working on behalf of the Turkish government. She declined to comment further on the case against Mr. Zarrab, citing client confidentiality.A Justice Department filing by Greenberg Traurig in November shows that during a recent six-month period, others from the firm who were representing the Turkish government met with Mr. Sessions twice while he was a Republican senator from Alabama, as well as with eight other members of Congress, “regarding U.S.-Turkish relations.”The November filing does not offer details of those meetings but says generally that the firm provided counsel “in connection with strengthening the Turkish-American relationship” and educated “government officials on issues of importance to Turkey.”Debevoise & Plimpton, Mr. Brafman and Mr. Kim’s office declined to comment on the case.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS