AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseFor the nation’s top executives, a summons to the White House has long been a much-coveted honor.Now, less than a month into President Trump’s administration, it’s become something to be ducked, at least for some.A Trump invitation “has become a double-edged sword because the population is so divided,” said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor at the Yale School of Management who organizes meetings of chief executives there.Then, executives were clamoring to make the cut, even those who had been cool or in some cases hostile to Mr. Trump’s candidacy. Well over 100 chief executives approached Mr. Schwarzman and the Trump transition team angling to be included.Only two people declined, citing time pressures: Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.The final list of 16 included such business luminaries as Jack Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric; Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase; Bob Iger of Disney; Mary Barra of General Motors; and Virginia Rometty of IBM.Soon after, Elon Musk of Tesla Motors, Travis Kalanick of Uber and Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo were added, buttressing the group’s expertise in technology and consumer products.Then Mr. Trump was inaugurated and in short order unleashed his divisive immigration order, leading to chaos at airports and nationwide protests. Exactly one week later, on relatively short notice, he convened the first meeting of the forum, with live television coverage from the State Dining Room of the White House.Even though nearly every company represented in the forum issued a statement that to varying degrees distanced it from the immigration order or even denounced it, the images of the meeting risked looking like an endorsement of the Trump administration and its policies.Images of Mrs. Nooyi, an immigrant born in India (and now a citizen), who sat next to Mr. Schwarzman and within camera range of Mr. Trump, seemed especially incongruous.Mr. Kalanick was the first on the forum to feel the wrath of consumers. Protesters accused Uber of “collaborating” with Mr. Trump and chained themselves to the doors of the company’s headquarters in downtown San Francisco. Soon after, the hashtag #DeleteUber trended on Twitter. Within four days of the immigration order, 200,000 users had deleted the Uber app, and one of the company’s rivals, Lyft, reported that downloads of its own app had more than doubled.When I contacted him this week, Mr. Kalanick said: “Joining the group was not meant to be an endorsement of the president or his agenda but unfortunately it has been misinterpreted to be exactly that. There are many ways we will continue to advocate for just change on immigration, but staying on the council was going to get in the way of that.”Protest flared and a social media boycott campaign took root after the founder of Under Armour, Kevin Plank, joined Mr. Trump’s 28-member Manufacturing Jobs Initiative, announced in January, and then praised the president’s pro-business policies on CNBC.Some Disney employees organized demonstrations in three cities this week, demanding that Mr. Iger resign from the forum, even though he didn’t attend the first meeting because of a conflict with a long-scheduled company board meeting. The demonstrations drew about 120 protesters, the company said.At the same time, Out & Equal, an advocacy group for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, praised Mr. Iger’s membership in the forum in a letter to the company, citing his support for workplace equality and ability to influence the president.Mr. Schwarzman himself received some criticism from a few Schwarzman scholars, who receive support under a program he established for study in China. In a letter to the scholars explaining his role in advising Mr. Trump, Mr. Schwarzman wrote: “In life you’ll often find that having influence and providing sound advice is a good thing, even if it attracts criticism or requires some sacrifice. However, I have always believed one’s obligation is to work for the common good.”As the Uber experience suggests, the risks of engaging with Mr. Trump are highest for companies with direct exposure to consumers, especially those who can easily switch to a competitor less identified with the Trump brand. General Motors and PepsiCo could face more consumer reaction; the banks and money managers less so; and industrial concerns like General Electric even less.At the same time, the benefits of being part of the forum and gaining the ear of the president are obvious: Virtually every Fortune 500 corporation has vitally important interests affected by the federal government, from antitrust, labor and trade policies, to tax reform and bank regulation, including changes to the Dodd-Frank Act.The comment seemed to underscore the degree to which Mr. Trump has turned regulation of Wall Street over to the bankers he railed against during the campaign. (Curiously, given Mr. Trump’s stated hostility to Dodd-Frank, Mr. Dimon is on record as supporting many aspects of the legislation, saying it has made the banking system safer but has also made it more difficult for smaller banks to compete.)A spokesman for JPMorgan Chase declined to comment.And refusing Mr. Trump’s invitations risks a presidential Twitter broadside, something that is unprecedented in American political and business history and whose impact is still being assessed. Yahoo Finance last week said it had sifted through more than 34,000 Trump tweets and identified attacks on 62 businesses, including at least two represented in the forum, General Motors and Boeing.(I asked the White House on Thursday for comment on its interaction with business leaders, but received no response.)Optics aside, Mr. Sonnenfeld of Yale said the president’s overtures to executives represented a welcome change from the Obama administration, which largely ignored big business and summoned bankers to Washington to browbeat them publicly over the financial crisis. By comparison, Mr. Trump embraced members of his business forum as “the best and the brightest” and said he welcomed their ideas.“There’s always the danger that chief executives will be used as photo ops,” Mr. Sonnenfeld acknowledged. But he praised Mr. Trump’s decision “to give chief executives a seat at the table” and said he had talked to at least half of the participants since the meeting. “They’re telling me they found him very receptive to their ideas and willing to listen,” he said. “They’ve said they’re holding each other accountable to be truthful and candid and to raise key issues with him.”Mr. Sonnenfeld has met with Mr. Trump since the election and offered advice. “He’s very charming and open to new ideas,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said. “I’ve seen business executives melt in his presence.”Charles Elson, a professor and expert in corporate governance at the University of Delaware, also praised the president for reaching out to business leaders. He said he disagreed with Mr. Kalanick’s decision to resign.“When the president calls, you should go to see him, regardless of your political persuasion, out of respect for the office,” Mr. Elson said. “As a chief executive with a duty to your shareholders, it’s your obligation to do so, like him or not.”Mr. Schwarzman’s office made a similar point when I inquired this week. “Steve has advised presidents from both parties in the past and feels a duty to help any administration that calls on him if he’s able to do so for the good of the country,” Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Schwarzman, said.Still, everyone I spoke to agreed that there were lines they wouldn’t cross. “You don’t have to agree” with the president, Mr. Elson said. “If he asks you to take a political position, you can say no. And if he asks you to endorse something where you have a deep philosophical objection, you shouldn’t do it.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorSkinny is often read as good today. We like skinny jeans, skinny models and, apparently, skinny health reform. It is likely that the Senate, which has just rejected repeal-and-replace and repeal-without-replace bills, will vote on a “skinny repeal” of the Affordable Care Act. What does this actually mean, and what would it produce?The proposal most often labeled “skinny” would repeal the insurance mandate for individuals and larger employers under the banner of choice and freedom — both standard objectives of conservatives. It also would repeal taxes on medical-device manufacturers and, perhaps, also on insurers, with the goal of reducing the costs that must be reflected in premiums.On the surface, both of those changes seem modest and reasonable. But I can assure Congress, as a former insurance company chief executive, that they would lead to a bloated upscale version of the Medicaid expansion so hated by conservatives. The result would be not only the loss of coverage for millions of people but also an even bigger bill for the government to pick up.You have to look at the dynamics of the insurance market to understand this. To survive, an insurer has to predict the risk of costly claims and to obtain sufficient enrollment to balance customers who need a lot of health care with enrollees who have few or no claims. This works because while an insurer can’t know the timing or severity of illness for an individual, it can estimate the average claims of a group of individuals fairly well.In health care, some individual needs are predictable — young people use less, and those with chronic conditions demand more. The only way to obtain a reasonable average is to have a broad pool, like the employees of a company covered by a group plan.The individual market never had this natural grouping, so premiums varied widely, as did coverage, if it was available at all. The Obamacare individual mandate was intended to produce a representative group and to keep average premiums in bounds.But a variety of problems resulted in predictably higher premium rates for insurance exchanges. The mandated coverage for qualified health plans was broader, enrollment was skewed by pricing that favored older customers, and risk-reduction mechanisms were insufficiently funded. Most of those can be laid at the feet of the Republican Congress and of President Trump for his sabotage in limiting enforcement of the mandate, cutting enrollment efforts and threatening to withhold the risk-sharing payments for low-income enrollees.Others sticking it out have bet that their higher premiums, combined with the loss of competitors, will let them cover the higher risk. They are probably right. The widely predicted “death spiral” won’t happen: Subsidies provide a low ceiling on the net premium for over three-quarters of enrollees.So what will it mean for individuals if the mandate is jettisoned in a “skinny repeal”? Those receiving subsidies will be largely immune to higher costs — their increased premiums will be offset by larger government subsidies — but it’s actually middle-income people without subsidies who will be priced out of the market.Those remaining in the exchanges will be receiving much higher subsidies because of the higher premiums, making them very similar to existing Medicaid beneficiaries. This is why the likely outcome is a much bigger tab for the government.In effect, a “skinny repeal” will result in an unintended expansion of ever larger government subsidies to the working poor. The difference is that those people will have higher incomes than allowed under normal Medicaid or the expanded Medicaid coverage that has been so controversial in red states.Some liberals may consider this extension of Medicaid-like coverage to be good policy that provides an on-ramp for the working poor to higher incomes and jobs with benefits. Yet the loss of insurance for millions of others is a steep cost for that expansion.Those Republicans who advocate “skinny repeal” as just a lighter version of “repeal and replace” are likely to be very surprised at the unintended result. Most important, this piecemeal approach is no way to do health policy.J. B. Silvers is a professor of health care finance at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNot long ago, after interviewing a venture capitalist onstage, I announced to the audience that we would take questions but no pitches. The first person at the microphone asked the investor to fund his start-up. I cringed as the second person started to pitch, too. Our educational event had quickly turned into a bad episode of “Shark Tank.”The following week, at a similar event, I saw a student ask a C.E.O. for her personal email address in front of the crowd. I’ve been stunned by the lengths people will go to at tech and business conferences to make a connection with a big name: sneaking backstage for a selfie, slipping business cards into briefcases, chasing them out the exit.Yet we’ve all been warned that it’s not what you know, it’s who you know. Success is supposed to come to the suave schmoozers and social butterflies.It’s true that networking can help you accomplish great things. But this obscures the opposite truth: Accomplishing great things helps you develop a network.Look at big breaks in entertainment. For George Lucas, a turning point was when Francis Ford Coppola hired him as a production assistant and went on to mentor him. Mr. Lucas didn’t schmooze his way into the relationship, though. As a film student he’d won first prize at a national festival and a scholarship to be an apprentice on a Warner Bros. film — he picked one of Mr. Coppola’s.Not long ago, I watched a colleague try to climb the ladder of success solely through networking. For a few years, he managed to meet increasingly influential people and introduce them to one another. Eventually it fell apart when they realized he didn’t have a meaningful connection with any of them. Networking alone leads to empty transactions, not rich relationships.It’s a lesson I’ve learned in my own career. I once emailed an entrepreneur I admired and got nothing in response. Some months later he contacted me out of the blue, with no memory that I had tried to get in touch before. He had attended a talk I gave and wanted to meet — now he had proof that I could add value.My students often believe that if they simply meet more important people, their work will improve. But it’s remarkably hard to engage with those people unless you’ve already put something valuable out into the world. That’s what piques the curiosity of advisers and sponsors. Achievements show you have something to give, not just something to take.So stop fretting about networking. Take a page out of the George Lucas and Sara Blakely playbooks: Make an intriguing film, build a useful product.In life, it certainly helps to know the right people. But how hard they go to bat for you, how far they stick their necks out for you, depends on what you have to offer. Building a powerful network doesn’t require you to be an expert at networking. It just requires you to be an expert at something.If you make great connections, they might advance your career. If you do great work, those connections will be easier to make. Let your insights and your outputs — not your business cards — do the talking.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFashion week partygoers included Selena Gomez, Tory Burch, Taylor Hill, Cardi B, Pharrell Williams and Rae Sremmurd.AdvertisementIt’s often said that the most important qualities in a chief executive are character and judgment. So what are shareholders, directors, customers and the public to make of the Barclays chief executive, James E. Staley, the subject of shareholder protests and multiple investigations on both sides of the Atlantic after little more than a year in the executive suite?Everyone I spoke to this week described Mr. Staley, a 34-year investment banking veteran of J. P. Morgan, as warm, likable and much appreciated for bringing some vitality to Barclays. The bank is desperate for stability after years of executive turmoil, the board’s ouster of its previous two chief executives, the Libor interest-rate manipulation scandal, and continuing fallout from the financial crisis.And then, in the next breath, nearly everyone mentioned the same word: “judgment.”That’s a quality that’s central to the issues that have enveloped Mr. Staley, which include a campaign to unmask a whistle-blower that Mr. Staley publicly acknowledged this week was a “mistake.”“I have apologized to the board, and I would today like to apologize to you as well, for that error,” Mr. Staley said on Wednesday at Barclays’ annual shareholders meeting in Royal Festival Hall in London.AdvertisementHe hasn’t apologized for the other issue roiling his tenure, his reported intervention in a dispute over a Brazilian private-equity deal that pitted his brother-in-law against the influential private-equity firm KKR, a major Barclays client. According to The Wall Street Journal, KKR executives are so angry that they are withholding some business from the bank.Advertisement“Both of these things are judgment issues,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “In and of themselves, they may seem relatively small given the overall operations of a global bank, but they call into question his judgment and character, and that’s important.”In both instances, Mr. Staley seems to have reacted viscerally — to protect a friend and ally at the bank, in the whistle-blowing incident, and a relative, in the private-equity deal.Such behavior might not have attracted much public attention even if Mr. Staley were still leading a division of a large bank. But when you are a chief executive, “your behavior is under the microscope,” Mr. Elson said. “Everything you do will be questioned. You’re in a very different position from others in the organization.”That Mr. Staley would be perceived as seeking twice to expose a whistle-blower — after other Barclays officials blocked his first attempt — is especially troubling given that Barclays has made protecting whistle-blowers a centerpiece of its post-financial-crisis culture and identity.“It sends a terrible message,” Mr. Elson said.Mike Ashley, a Barclays director and chairman of the audit committee, described himself as a “whistle-blowing champion” in Barclays’ 2016 annual report and promised “an annual report to the board on whistle-blowing matters.” (He should have plenty to talk about this year.)Barclays handed out coffee mugs emblazoned with the hotline number and the logo of a whistle. The bank’s code of conduct, “The Barclays Way,” assures whistle-blowers that “no one will be treated less favorably or discriminated against because they have raised a concern.”Yet when two anonymous letters arrived alleging that Tim Main, whom Mr. Staley hired as head of the Barclays Financial institutions group last June, had a history of personal issues that affected his work, Mr. Staley was troubled and instructed Barclays’ internal security division to identify the source.AdvertisementMr. Staley thought the letters were malicious, because Mr. Main’s issues were in the distant past, he had successfully surmounted them and he had maintained an unblemished record since then, according to a bank employee familiar with the matter but not authorized to discuss it publicly. (The bank said Mr. Staley and Mr. Main had no comment for this article.)Barclays hasn’t said who gave Mr. Staley the letters — in itself a breach of internal protocol — or who at the bank subsequently stopped the inquiry.That might have been the end of it. But a month later, after the bank closed its inquiry into Mr. Main and determined that no action was warranted, Mr. Staley again asked internal security to find the source of the letters. This time Barclays went so far as to enlist the United States Postal Service to help identify the source of the letter, because the letters bore a United States postmark, according to a person briefed on the matter.Of this second attempt, Barclays has said Mr. Staley had an “honestly held, but mistaken, belief that he had clearance to identify the author of one of the letters.”The pursuit of the whistle-blower came to light thanks to yet another whistle-blower, who reported that Mr. Staley was violating bank policy. The mystery of who sent the two letters remains unsolved.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The board hired an outside law firm to investigate the handling of the whistle-blower episode and reported the results to regulators. Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority and New York’s Department of Financial Services are investigating, as is the United States Department of Justice.In the private-equity deal, according to The Journal’s account this month, KKR initially asked Mr. Staley to help resolve a dispute it had with Mr. Staley’s wife, Debora Nitzan Staley, and her brother, Jorge Nitzan, members of a wealthy Brazilian family.The Nitzans had sold KKR a Brazilian company they owned with another private-equity concern. After the deal closed, KKR executives discovered evidence of what they considered fraud and contacted Mr. Staley about helping to settle the dispute.Instead, KKR claimed that Mr. Staley had gone to bat for his brother-in-law, defending him and contacting other investors in an effort to help his brother-in-law buy back the company. KKR has filed an arbitration claim against Mr. Staley’s brother-in-law, and has withheld business from Barclays, where it has been a significant client, accounting for hundreds of millions in fees.AdvertisementWhen I asked about the matter, Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, said, “We have a responsibility to protect the interests of our investors who we believe were defrauded.” She added, “We would also note that we have been a longtime client of Barclays, which comes with its own responsibilities for Barclays.”(The Journal said Mr. Nitzan, through a spokesman, had called the accusations of fraud “baseless” and said the facts would be made clear in arbitration.)Barclays has said that it had no involvement in the deal, that Mr. Staley was acting in a personal capacity and that he kept senior Barclays management informed. On Wednesday, Barclays’ chairman, John McFarlane, told reporters that the board had advised Mr. Staley not to do anything, and that he had complied.But it’s very difficult for any chief executive to act in a purely personal capacity, especially in business matters involving bank clients. Why Mr. Staley would have had any involvement in a deal so sensitive to a Barclays client mystifies some.“Promoting the work of a relative is especially ill advised,” Mr. Elson said. “That also raises judgment questions.”Mr. Staley also seems not to have absorbed a central paradox of being chief executive, which is that the more power you have, the more restrained you need to be about using it. Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford’s Graduate School of Business, said, “C.E.O.s frequently suffer from the disinhibition that comes from having power.”Barclays’ board has discussed the whistle-blower issue at length and has said Mr. Staley has the board’s full confidence, although it intends to reduce his bonus by a “very significant” amount. (Last year it was $1.6 million.)Still, it doesn’t seem to be taking matters all that seriously: At this week’s shareholders’ meeting, Mr. McFarlane compared the whistle-blower matter to running a red light.Advertisement“He thought he had a green light,” Mr. McFarlane said of Mr. Staley. “He went through the green light, and it was actually red. The action for going through a red light wrongly is you don’t lose your license.”Mr. McFarlane also pointed to Mr. Staley’s relative inexperience as a chief executive and insisted he had “learned his lesson.”But Mr. Pfeffer of Stanford observed, “Boards mostly do not provide tough oversight of their C.E.O.s.”For now, Mr. Staley’s job seems secure, although it’s clear he has little margin for further error. Institutional Shareholder Services had advised shareholders to abstain and withhold their support for Mr. Staley’s re-election to the board, and this week many did: He received just 62 percent of potential votes. But those who did vote gave him the benefit of the doubt: 97 percent voted for him.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byThere have been millions of dollars in campaign spending. Churlish television ads. Allegations of ignoring sexual misconduct complaints.The deal gave the Democrats a chance to sweep the Legislature and governor’s office. There was just one hitch: two Senate seats that had previously been occupied by Democrats will be decided on Tuesday in special elections.With such high stakes, the Democratic challenger, Shelley B. Mayer, an assemblywoman from Yonkers, is now engaged in a heated clash with Julie Killian, a moderate Republican and former councilwoman and deputy mayor in the City of Rye.In a county where Democrats outnumber Republicans by two-to-one, the presidency of Donald J. Trump has loomed large in the race. Ms. Mayer’s campaign is running ads in which Ms. Killian is made to look like a Trump clone. In an interview, Ms. Killian declined to address Mr. Trump’s record or rhetoric, saying she had been too focused on her race to follow the news out of Washington.“The perspective I want to bring to Albany is that of a mother, chemical engineer, finance person and community advocate involved in substance abuse and mental health issues,” she said. “It’s my on-the-ground experience that has shaped my views on the issues.”A mother of five, Ms. Killian, 57, studied engineering in college and, after earning a master’s in business, worked in finance. In 2012, she created a coalition to fight the opioid epidemic, which claimed the lives of several young people in Rye in recent years alone.At a time of national reckoning for women who were victims of sexual abuse, Ms. Killian’s campaign has sought to show that Ms. Mayer dropped the ball in addressing sexual misconduct complaints when, before running for the Assembly, she served as legal counsel to the Senate Democrats.In recent debates, Ms. Mayer, 64, acknowledged that she met with one of the women, and learned about the other incident through the woman’s boyfriend. She followed the protocol in place at the time, which was to refer allegations to the secretary of the Senate, a political appointee.“In both cases, I went to the secretary of the Senate and I made the case that they need to do more,” she said in a debate held in the studios of WRNN-TV on Tuesday. “They failed to do so. ”In an interview, Ms. Mayer said that the Assembly has a rule that requires mandatory reporting of any allegation of sexual misconduct to an outside law firm. “I believe the policy in the Senate was very flawed then, and the Senate Republicans just adopted it again,” she said.Ms. Killian has nonetheless seized on the report in an effort to cast doubt on Ms. Mayer’s feminist credentials. “She’s no champion of women,” Ms. Killian said. “She had the opportunity to help them. She was the most senior woman in the Senate Democrats at the time.”Some newly minted activists are not buying the portrayal. “There are two females in this race, but only one is pro-woman,” said Jenny Geer, who leads a progressive group called Blue Blast in Larchmont and Mamaroneck and who has canvassed for Ms. Mayer. “I think it’s convenient for Julie Killian to piggyback on the #MeToo movement and exploit it.”For her part, Ms. Mayer, who has championed legislation on gun safety, voting rights and redressing sexual abuse, expressed skepticism of Ms. Killian’s self-proclaimed centrist politics, saying she was trying to appeal to the county’s leftward tilt in the age of Trump. “I think she has become a moderate now,” she said. “She has not disavowed this president or anything he has done.”“It’s crucial for us in Westchester,” said Douglas A. Colety, chairman of the Westchester County Republican Committee, “and it’s crucial for control of the State Senate in Albany.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseDuring his campaign, Donald J. Trump embraced the cause of fiscal responsibility and accused President Barack Obama of shackling the country with a “mountain of debt.”Then on Wednesday, Mr. Trump unveiled the outlines of his much-anticipated tax overhaul, calling for steep tax cuts with only modest offsetting revenue increases. Economists I spoke to this week estimate it would add trillions to the national debt over the next decade.“We’ve only done the rough numbers, but this looks like a tax cut of a magnitude of about $5 trillion,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan advocacy organization for fiscal responsibility. “That is simply unimaginable given our fiscal situation and the size of the deficit, which is already the worst since World War II.”The sense of incredulity was widely shared.Or as Steven M. Rosenthal, a business tax expert and senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, put it: “Mr. Trump’s plan basically is tax cuts for everyone. Real reform, with revenue neutrality, is difficult. There are winners and losers, but Trump apparently just wants winners.”Tax cuts, as opposed to tax reform, are easy, Ms. MacGuineas agreed: “Who doesn’t love a tax cut, especially if no one has to pay for it? This is a free-lunch mentality.”That Mr. Trump would embrace such a cut-now, pay-later approach probably shouldn’t be too much of a surprise, considering the Trump Organization’s reliance on borrowed money. “I’m the king of debt,” Mr. Trump said last year on CNN. “I love debt.”Just how much Mr. Trump’s plan would cost the government is hard to determine, given the sketchy details. But the conservative-leaning Tax Foundation estimates that two prospective elements — reducing individual rates to three brackets of 35, 25 and 10 percent, and cutting the tax rate for corporations and pass-through entities (businesses that pay taxes at individual rates) to 15 percent — would cost the Treasury $4 trillion to $6 trillion over 10 years, said Alan Cole, an economist at the foundation.Mr. Trump also wants to eliminate the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax, each of which would cost the Treasury hundreds of millions in revenue.The administration’s proposal was silent on some critical aspects of any tax plan, such as the treatment of capital expenditures for business. Mr. Trump has said he strongly supports immediate expensing of capital expenditures, which many economists agree would encourage growth. The Tax Foundation estimates that such a change from current depreciation schedules would cost the Treasury $2.2 trillion over 10 years.That would raise the 10-year revenue loss to well over $8 trillion.Mr. Trump’s proposal did nod in the direction of raising revenue by calling for elimination of all deductions, save those for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and retirement savings. The major deduction not mentioned — and evidently jettisoned — is the one for state and local taxes. (And it’s probably no coincidence that the states that would be hit hardest, like New York and California, overwhelmingly supported Hillary Clinton.)Mr. Cole said eliminating the deduction for state and local taxes would add about $2 trillion of revenue over 10 years.But the Trump plan didn’t address other possible sources of revenue, such as eliminating the interest deduction for businesses or imposing a border tax. Both are key elements of the Republican House plan, but have drawn fierce opposition from the powerful real estate and retail lobbies.The Treasury secretary, Steven T. Mnuchin, suggested that the plan would “pay for itself” by bolstering economic growth and tax receipts. But no economist I spoke to this week — Republican or Democrat — said growth could compensate for an increase in the deficit of anywhere near the magnitude of $4 trillion to $6 trillion.While economists debate the impact of vast additional government borrowing on debt markets, most argue it would drive up interest rates, curbing the very growth the cuts were intended to foster. “Borrowing trillions of dollars eventually shows up in financial markets,” Mr. Burman said. “It will almost certainly push up interest rates.”And the effect would come at a time when the Federal Reserve is already raising interest rates, even without the impact of new federal borrowing.“We’re very vulnerable to higher rates,” Ms. MacGuineas said. “Every 1 percent increase in interest rates adds $160 billion a year to our existing interest payments. Interest is already the fastest-growing portion of the federal budget.”She, too, argued that a big increase in federal borrowing would push up interest rates, undermining growth “or even causing negative growth.”The Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center estimated that when additional interest payments were included, Mr. Trump’s campaign tax proposals would add $7.2 trillion to the national debt by 2026 and $20.9 trillion by 2036.“The losers are future generations,” said Mr. Rosenthal — as Republicans have long argued.Given the huge impact on the deficit, no one I spoke to expects Mr. Trump’s plan to be enacted without significant modifications. “I don’t think a tax cut of anywhere near this size can make it through Congress,” Ms. MacGuineas said. “There are varying degrees of commitment to getting our fiscal affairs under control among members of Congress, and there are some Republicans who only use the argument against Democrats. But there are others who are very serious about it.”Mr. Holtz-Eakin agreed. “There are many Republicans who genuinely care about deficits,” he said. “They recognize that you can’t create permanent tax reform if you’re blowing up the deficit. “He added: “I think this is an opening salvo. With this president, everything is a negotiation, and this is his opening bid.”Even that prospect is worrisome, Ms. MacGuineas said. “These numbers are so huge, they almost lose meaning,” she said. “You start negotiating about adding $5 trillion to the deficit and $1 trillion starts to sound reasonable. But that shouldn’t even be on the table without a plan to get the deficit under control.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byMany tax experts say a key element to any fundamental overhaul is getting rid of certain deductions for businesses — the “special-interest giveaways that are masked as tax breaks,” as House Republicans describe many of them in their own proposal. That is the only way tax rates for much of the country can go down without starving the Treasury, the experts say.But there is a major roadblock to that fundamental change, and it comes from a sector well known to the president: the real estate industry.As the nation’s first real estate developer-president — one who has refused to divest his holdings while occupying the Oval Office and has declined to release his past tax returns — Mr. Trump brings his career perspective to the tax question, as well as a substantial financial stake in the outcome.His interest will be shared by small builders, brokers and contractors in congressional districts across the country. And as they showed in rolling back previous changes that had taken away advantages, their lobbying prowess is formidable.“There’s probably no special interest that’s more favored by the existing tax code than real estate,” said Steven M. Rosenthal, a real estate tax lawyer and senior fellow at the centrist Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center. “It’s really hard to take that industry on.”Much of the attention will focus on the tax deduction for interest payments by businesses, a provision that Mr. Trump has used to great advantage in what little has been seen of his past tax returns. The House Republican plan calls for eliminating the deduction as part of an overall plan, helping offset lower tax rates. The nonpartisan, conservative-leaning Tax Foundation says the provision could be a $1.5 trillion proposition over the next decade.The National Multifamily Housing Council, a trade association of apartment owners, managers, developers and lenders, has come to the defense of the interest deduction and other provisions favorable to the real estate industry, describing them as “core principles” and promising a fight. So has the influential Real Estate Roundtable, whose board includes several of Mr. Trump’s fellow New York developers.The real estate lobby has prominent allies in both parties. After the last major overhaul of the tax code, in 1986 — under a Republican president, Ronald Reagan, a Republican Senate and a Democratic House — it was a Democrat, Bill Clinton, who signed legislation that restored lost real estate tax breaks seven years later.While the Trump administration has yet to put forward a plan, Mr. Trump has embraced several key proposals, including some at odds with the House Republican blueprint. His ideas, in many cases, would enhance benefits to developers like himself.“Trump said he knows where the loopholes are, but so far he hasn’t proposed closing any of them,” Mr. Rosenthal said. “Maybe he will. But so far he hasn’t made any of the hard decisions that would show he’s willing to close the loopholes that benefit him in order to make the tax code more fair and efficient.”Certain tax breaks, in fact, seem to exist solely or primarily to benefit the real estate industry, with dubious benefits or even harmful effects for the broader economy.Mr. Trump’s campaign staff indicated last summer that he wanted to keep the interest deduction. But then Mr. Trump came out in favor of another key element of the House Republican plan: immediate deductibility, or expensing, of capital expenditures, rather than the practice of depreciating assets over time.Tax experts broadly agree that the interest deduction is untenable if the code also allows immediate expensing. That’s because many investors would borrow large sums to make capital expenditures (like buildings), immediately deduct all of the cost and continue to deduct the interest payments — “double dipping,” as Mr. Rosenthal put it.Mr. Rosenthal put it bluntly: “Coupling an interest deduction with expensing is ridiculous.”In response to the criticism, Mr. Trump pivoted and said he would give taxpayers the “option” of either taking the interest deduction or expensing capital expenditures, not both. But that adds yet another layer of complexity and would be even more costly for the Treasury, since taxpayers would presumably choose the option that resulted in the lower tax bill.Moreover, it is hard to see a path toward reducing overall corporate tax rates — the crucial element in making any overhaul palatable to a wide swath of businesses — without the added revenues from eliminating the interest deduction.(Individuals generally cannot deduct interest payments — with the major exception of mortgage interest, another boon to the real estate industry, albeit one that also benefits millions of homeowners. Mr. Trump has said eliminating the mortgage deduction is off the table.)Then there is the ability of “active” real estate investors such as Mr. Trump (but virtually no other group) to deduct their real estate losses against other income. That loophole was eliminated for most investors — including real estate investors — in the landmark tax legislation in 1986. But because of aggressive lobbying by the powerful real estate industry, including Mr. Trump himself, Congress passed legislation in 1993 restoring the tax break for so-called active real estate developers.Alan Cole, an economist at the Tax Foundation, said it was difficult to estimate how much that provision costs the Treasury, because the underlying data is not available.(Whether Mr. Trump would still qualify as an active real estate investor now that he is in the White House and has handed over management of his business interests to his sons is an open question. Ordinarily an investor has to spend 750 hours a year working in real estate to qualify, which would be hard to reconcile with Mr. Trump’s presidential duties.)Another loophole for real estate developers is the so-called like-kind exchange provision, which allows real estate investors to defer or even eliminate capital gains tax by using the proceeds from a sale to reinvest in a similar property (which does not have to be all that similar — just about any real estate can be exchanged, even an apartment complex for vacant land).Since Mr. Trump has not released his tax returns, the public doesn’t know whether and to what extent he benefits from the provision, but nearly all real estate developers use like-kind exchanges to avoid capital gains tax. The Real Estate Roundtable strongly backs the provision. Mr. Trump hasn’t said whether he would retain it. But it is another special-interest loophole that nearly all tax experts would eliminate.The Tax Foundation estimates that taxing like-kind exchanges would generate $92 billion in additional revenue over 10 years.Advocates of a tax overhaul often point to the 1986 act as a model for a comprehensive approach that ushered in a long period of economic growth. Given the power of the real estate lobby, “presidential leadership was crucial,” said Leonard E. Burman, director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center and a professor at the Maxwell School of Syracuse University.Reagan made tax reform a central campaign theme and mustered bipartisan support in Congress. “Reagan didn’t get into the details,” Mr. Burman said. “But he made the calls, he gave the speeches, and he got people excited about the idea of fixing our broken tax system.”“It’s hard to imagine President Trump doing that,” he said. “Because at the end of the day, the existing tax code is great for people like him.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementRic Edelman disappoints in his new investing book, left. Gary Smith offers financial formulas to help identify value stocks in his new book, “Money Machine.”With the stock market up substantially since the first of the year, and technological innovations continuing to roil the corporate landscape, how should you invest right now?Two new books offer very different answers, with each taking an unconventional approach.In the far better one, “Money Machine: The Surprisingly Simple Power of Value Investing” (Amacom, $27.95), Gary Smith, a Pomona College economics professor, says you should concentrate on value stocks. In contrast, in “The Truth About Your Future: The Money Guide You Need Now, Later and Much Later” (Simon & Schuster $26), Ric Edelman says you need to figure out how to capitalize on trends disrupting how business is typically done.Let’s begin with Mr. Smith, who does an excellent job explaining his position.“Instead of trying to predict short-term zigs and zags in stock prices, value investors evaluate individual stocks and the market as a whole by looking for good companies that have low stock prices relative to their dividends, earnings and assets,” he writes.Mr. Smith uses an analogy to make his case.“Think of a stock as a machine that generates cash every few months — cash that happens to be called dividends,” he writes. “The key question is how much you would pay to own that machine in order to get the cash. This is the stock’s intrinsic value. Value investors buy a stock because it is an inexpensive money machine, generating bountiful cash it is hoped over many years.”AdvertisementThroughout the book, Mr. Smith provides financial formulas to help you identify value stocks, and his writing is clear and often clever. For example:AdvertisementThe book, however, does have its flaws — one major, a couple minor.The big one first: It is perfectly defensible to pick one approach to investing — such as loading up on value stocks, companies with solid revenues, earnings and dividends that are trading at a relatively low price — over all others. As Mr. Smith points out a number of times, Warren E. Buffett is a value investor. And this reviewer understands that Mr. Buffett has done quite well.But financial mavens like Mr. Buffett, the maestro of Berkshire Hathaway, are rare, and as Mr. Smith himself points out, “very few investors think they are below average, even though half are.” Most of us would be better off with a widely diversified portfolio, something Mr. Smith barely acknowledges.As for the minor nits, Mr. Smith tends to digress, mentioning academic papers he wrote that are at best tangential to the concept of value investing. For example, he says that stocks with ingenious ticker symbols, such as MOO for VanEck Vectors Agribusiness ETF, tend to outperform the market. That is a fun fact — especially for us financial nerds — but I am not sure what it has to do with the matter at hand, and I would not recommend an investment based solely on a cute name.See how the largest, leading and lagging funds compare.Find funds by their type, performance, risk or expenses.Similarly, while it is possible that a home could be viewed as a value investment, as he explains, I am not sure the discussion was worth 20 pages of a 300-page book.These are small quibbles. For the most part, he states his case well.“The value-investing philosophy is simple,” he writes. “Look for great companies whose stocks are inexpensive relative to their dividends and earnings.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That clarity and brevity are lacking in Mr. Edelman’s book. He is a financial planner, but readers expecting detailed investment advice will be disappointed.AdvertisementFor example, after writing that it is vital to diversify your investments among stocks, bonds, cash and perhaps other investments such as real estate, how does Mr. Edelman respond to his rhetorical question “how much of your portfolio should be placed into each” of those assets?Like this: “The answer is … it depends. I wish I could provide you a more specific answer right now, but this is just a book on personal finance — it’s not a private, in-depth meeting with a financial planning professional.”He doesn’t even offer general guidelines. He just moves on.This is already my pick for the most frustrating personal finance book of 2017. And one of the reasons I am so annoyed is that the premise was so promising.“Financial planning is all about anticipating and preparing for the future,” Mr. Edelman writes. “So to understand what your future will be like, you need to understand why it’s going to be so radically different from what you have been assuming.”He then devotes about two-thirds of his more than 300 pages to underscoring things we know but can easily forget: Medical advances could make us live longer, ever-evolving technology will provide more engaging entertainment options, and rapidly evolving workplaces will require continuous education, perhaps extensive enough for us to have to leave the workplace for a while to concentrate on learning new things.So far, so good. But what do these changes mean for the way we invest? Well, when it comes to leisure and learning, for example, Mr. Edelman’s advice is just this: “Expect to spend lots of money on travel and recreation — and this will need to be factored into your financial plan.” How? There are no details.About as specific as he gets is to say: “Invest in a globally diversified portfolio. Maintain that portfolio for a very long time. Strategically rebalance the portfolio as needed,” and “include companies that are using or developing exponential technologies.”The “what” to invest in, how much of your portfolio it should represent, and what’s “a very long time” are left to you. That isn’t much help when you are trying to determine how to invest today.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Joshua B. Freeman doesn’t chronicle the aftershocks of the loss of five million factory jobs from the American landscape or show you the impact of disappearing factory jobs on towns across America. And I wish he had addressed the abandoned plants, escalating drug crime and crowded food pantries.But what this distinguished professor of history at CUNY’s Queens College does is lay out two centuries of factory production all over the world in ways that are accessible, cogent, occasionally riveting and thoroughly new. The history of large factories, as Freeman outlines it, is the history of the modern world and most everything we see, experience and touch.At a time when the ghost of the American dream hovers over headlines ranging from free trade vs. protectionism to opioid addiction and other so-called diseases of despair, “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” should be required reading for all Americans, especially the 8 percent of the American labor force who still work in manufacturing (down from 24 percent in 1960).If you are reading this review on an iPad or iPhone or another Silicon Valley-designed computer screen, then Freeman’s history will not only explain how and where your device came to be produced but also how the story of modern production parallels the story of your relative level of affluence, from the balance in your retirement funds to the circumstances prompting your ancestors’ migration from an unproductive Irish potato field to a western Pennsylvania steel mill.There are few items in our homes that didn’t originate as disparate components in faraway supply plants, touched by many hands in multiple countries. But whose hands actually make and order the assembling of the products, from the B-24 builders in Ypsilanti, Mich., whose goods flew into combat during World War II, to the corporate owners who erected three million square meters of yellow netting to prevent overworked Chinese Foxconn workers from jumping to their deaths in 2010?Freeman tells us who both the makers and the corporate owners are, and, more impressively, he shows us how, over a relatively short period of time, their stories come to be entangled. He wants us to leave his book grappling with the question: How should human beings balance economic good with environmental harm, need with greed?He is more concerned with the building up of factories than the tearing down, chronicling the pros and cons of factory work with a scholar’s even gaze. When a developing country embraces manufacturing to propel itself away from agrarian subsistence, the work is invariably rote and exploitive and often even life-threatening. But, over all, life expectancy climbs and poverty and disease plummet.That was as true in the wake of the Industrial Revolution in Western Europe — before which only half of French children, plagued by hunger and disease, lived to see the age of 20 — as it is now in Ethiopia, where the producers of Ivanka Trump’s shoes recently relocated from Dongguan, China, chasing a more desperate work force content to work for a pittance (roughly $30 a month) rather than paying the rising wages of their predecessors in China ($560).Capitalism, naturally, takes advantage of such increasingly swift and secretive moves. It was the striving capitalists, after all, who pioneered the world’s initial giant factories — first among them a British wigmaker named Richard Arkwright who patented his spinning machine in 1768, then created an empire of steam-powered cotton mills. Arkwright knew he had arrived when he was able to lend the Duchess of Devonshire 5,000 pounds to pay down her gambling debts, even if he and his fellow mill owners used laborers as young as 7 years old.Freeman dips into a delicious expanse of source material from Charles Dickens to Karl Marx to Tim Cook, from Bloomberg Businessweek to The National Rip-Saw. In roughly chronological order, British silk mill owners give way to the Boston barons who developed the factory town of Lowell, Mass., in 1822, building dorm-style housing for the out-of-town farmers’ daughters they hired and innovating a standardized production process that bested the British and would “morally uplift” via such utopian amenities as company-sponsored libraries and potted plants.The wealthy Boston merchant Francis Cabot Lowell not only figured out how to churn out white sheeting more efficiently — the fabric used to make slaves’ clothing — but he was also the brains behind the radical innovation of the stockholder corporation. Before Lowell, that model was rare, usually reserved for public works, not the accumulation of private wealth.Freeman loops around the globe nimbly, drawing parallels between the farmers’ daughters who sent money home from Lowell and the Chinese migrants who do the same from Guangdong almost two centuries later. Though I wish he would have lingered longer on the workers’ lives, he has a sharp eye for the raw, gut-kicking detail. A riveter in the Urals freezes to death on a scaffolding. Middle managers in Michigan have to learn the words for “hurry up” in English, German, Polish and Italian to keep Henry Ford’s assembly line humming along.As he does with Diego Rivera’s industry-worshiping murals in Detroit, Freeman’s mini-portrait of the photographer Margaret Bourke-White shows how the public came to view manufacturing through her factory-fanatic lens, from Ford’s River Rouge plant in Dearborn, Mich., to Stalin’s giant tractor factory in a former melon field. With Henry Ford’s top architect, Albert Kahn, as their consultant, the Soviets squeezed wealth out of the countryside on the road to creating a socialist society after an initial epic fail. “The Russians have no more idea how to use the conveyor than a group of schoolchildren,” Freeman quotes Bourke-White saying. “One Russian is screwing in a tiny bolt and 20 other Russians are standing around him watching, talking it over, smoking cigarettes, arguing.”But the Russians eventually figured out how to make manufacturing advance both their socialist culture and their economy, inspiring the East Europeans, all of whom later inspire Taiwanese and Hong Kong businessmen setting up Chinese government-backed shops in Shenzhen and Guangdong.Freeman’s final chapter, “Foxconn City,” is the finest and most searing profile of wealth-makers in the bunch, revealing the sheer drudgery of overworked people who make sneakers and iPhones but can’t afford to buy them and the quiet deal-making machinations fueling Silicon Valley’s billionaire class.Quoting the Apple executive Tim Cook, the mastermind behind offshoring production to Taiwanese-owned contractors in China before his ascent to chief executive, Freeman shows how just-in-time production flourishes on the backs of poorly paid workers who are shifted from one factory to another in an entirely different region practically at the stroke of his keyboard. When it comes to inventory, Cook said, “you kind of want to manage it like you’re in the dairy business. If it gets past its freshness date, you have a problem.”When wages rise because of retention problems or labor unrest, the Chinese government is happy to help Apple and others by handing out tax breaks and transportation projects to spur new, lower-paying factories in China’s hinterlands. No such help is on tap for a worker, trained with a specialized skill, stuck in a country that no longer supports the industry she works in and living in places like Flint, Mich., which can’t even guarantee the water is safe.For the displaced, Freeman writes, “the future has already come and gone, perhaps leaving them with sneakers and a smartphone, but with little hope” for forging a post-factory life that is both sustainable and ecologically sound.Though he never states it outright, Freeman’s inclusion of poetry by a Foxconn worker who committed suicide in 2014 telegraphs where his allegiances lie:“Behemoth” is contextually thin in places, especially Freeman’s take on deindustrialization. He doesn’t mention that, as life expectancy in East Asia climbed, mortality rates rose in America, or that drug dealers, not farm girls seeking sewing jobs, now flock to Lowell — a distribution hub for heroin.Freeman only cursorily explores the aftermath of globalization, automation and unfettered free trade, and he doesn’t ask what the government owes the people still living in America’s former mill and mining towns. More robust retraining and access to need-based college financial aid? Incentives to resettle elsewhere? A New Deal for the displaced and drug-addicted?Perhaps it’s beyond the purview of a historian to wrestle with such questions. Perhaps it is enough that this thoroughly researched history makes us question our own accumulation of the stuff in front of us and our complicity in the truth we dare not see.Beth Macy is the author of “Factory Man: How One Furniture Maker Battled Offshoring, Stayed Local — and Helped Save an American Town” and “Dopesick: Dealers, Doctors, and the Drug Company That Addicted America,” coming in August.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS