AdvertisementA last-minute scramble to shore up support from wavering Republican senators injected significant changes into the Senate tax bill.The overhaul will still cut taxes on individuals and businesses, but the changes will reduce some benefits while sweetening others. Some of the provisions lawmakers wanted will cost additional money, prompting the need to find offsets.Here’s a look at the main changes that are expected to be included in the Senate’s revised bill to be voted on later today.AdvertisementThe A.M.T. was created to limit the amount of deductions available to the richest Americans. Over the years, though, inflation has eaten away at its effectiveness — as has the exclusion of interest and dividend income, which insulates the richest Americans.AdvertisementBut it brings in a lot of revenue — as much as $1 trillion over the next decade — so lawmakers are now planning to reduce, rather than repeal, the tax. The Senate bill will increase the individual exemption amounts that taxpayers using the A.M.T. are entitled to and will increase the taxable income level at which those exemption amounts begin to phase out. Both moves will provide some relief to those whose income and use of deductions requires them to use the A.M.T., but it is far different from the House bill, which eliminates the tax as part of its tax code “simplification” effort.The Senate bill also retains the corporate A.M.T., which was slated for elimination in both the Senate and House bill. Together, the changes are expected to raise about $173 billion over the next decade.The Senate bill is expected to allow taxpayers to deduct up to $10,000 in state and local property taxes paid, a provision in unison with the House bill.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The original Senate bill called for elimination of the state and local tax deduction, which is primarily used in high-tax, Democrat-leaning states. But Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, insisted on including the limited property tax deduction, which will cost about $148 billion over a decade. That could ease one potential area of contention with the House bill.The Senate bill will sweeten the tax deduction for owners of businesses that are organized as pass-throughs, meaning the business income is taxed at the individual owner’s tax rate.The change will cost the United States government $114 billion over a decade.AdvertisementHowever, the House bill eliminated the deduction altogether, so that will be one area of potential contention when the two chambers try to reconcile their versions. The cost of that change is unclear, as of now.The Senate bill increases the tax rate that companies will have to pay on foreign corporate profits. The “deemed repatriation” provision in the Senate will now subject untaxed foreign corporate profits to immediate taxation at a rate of 14 percent for cash holdings and 7 percent for noncash holdings. That is up from the original proposal of 10 percent and 5 percent and in line with the House version.The change is expected to bring in an additional $97 billion over a decade.See More »Go to Home Page »