AdvertisementSupported byHis death was confirmed by Ewnetu Admassu, the general manager of Lincoln Plaza.Mr. Talbot chose to trust his own tastes. “When I look at movies, I don’t think of the box office,” he said in the same interview. “If it appeals to my aesthetic sense, if it has some artistic foundation, I take a chance with it.” And that system worked.Mr. Talbot’s boldest moves included “Point of Order,” 188 hours of the 1954 McCarthy Senate hearings, edited to 97 minutes; “Shoah,” Claude Lanzmann’s almost nine-and-a-half-hour interview-based documentary about the Holocaust, which aired on PBS after half a year in theaters; and a 1960 release of “Triumph of the Will,” Leni Riefenstahl’s infamous propaganda documentary about the 1934 Nazi Party Congress.Daniel Talbot was born Daniel Distenfeld on July 21, 1926, in the Bronx. His father, Israel, worked as a textile jobber. His mother, the former Jean Charak, owned a fabric and notions shop.After graduating from New York University with a literature degree, Mr. Talbot worked in publishing and film — as a book editor, as East Coast story editor for Warner Bros. and briefly as film critic for the pacifist magazine The Progressive. After a year living in Spain, putting together a collection of essays titled “Film: An Anthology” (1959), Mr. Talbot returned to the United States and the opportunity that became the New Yorker Theater.Mr. Talbot and his wife, the former Toby Tolpen, learned that the old Yorktown Theater, on Broadway between 88th and 89th Street, was available. They renamed the theater the New Yorker and reopened it in March 1960 as a revival house, presenting “Henry V” with Laurence Olivier and “The Red Balloon” as their first double feature. By 1962, business was so good that the couple bought the lease. By 1964, Mr. Talbot was being interviewed for The New York Post by a young writer named Nora Ephron, who described his theater as “a raving success”The theater branched out into first-run foreign and independent films and presented retrospectives of the work of both actors and directors. The New Yorker’s lobby guest book was signed by the city’s creative elite.By the mid-1970s, the couple were devoting themselves full time to distribution, Ms. Talbot recalled. New Yorker Films’s hundreds of credits included “Aguirre, the Wrath of God” (1972), “Tampopo” (1985), “The Boys of St. Vincent” (1992) and “My Dinner With Andre” (1981). The company ceased operations in 2009 but was later revived under new owners.In the intervening years, other projects had come along. Two more Upper West Side theaters came and went. And the theater that became Mr. Talbot’s final legacy began a 37-year-run across the street from Lincoln Center.In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1950, Mr. Talbot is survived by three daughters, Nina Talbot, Emily Talbot and Sarah Tanzer; and four grandchildren.Although he had been ill for some time (in May he did not attend Cannes, where he had been an enthusiastic regular since 1967), Mr. Talbot continued to be involved in the industry. He wrote an article, “Fragments From the Dream World: Reminiscences of a Film Distributor and Exhibitor,” for the spring 2017 issue of Cineaste.Mr. Talbot disliked cinematic pretentiousness. He told Ms. Ephron that his work should never be viewed “with solemnity.” In the 1981 Times interview, he insisted that his programming choices had never been intended to shape audiences or advocate any ideology. They were chosen, he said, just to “demonstrate the full glory of movies.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS