AdvertisementSupported by“There is one thing about this case that should be made crystal-clear at the outset,” the suit maintains. “The violence in Charlottesville was no accident.”The nine named plaintiffs — students, clergy members and local residents who say they were hurt in Charlottesville — have accused the event’s leaders of plotting to deprive them of their civil rights by encouraging their followers to arm themselves and partake in violence. (Heather Heyer’s family is not among the plaintiffs.)The defendants — an array of neo-Nazis, white identitarians and old-line pro-Confederates — have ridiculed the charges as an act of “lawfare” maliciously intended to silence them and destroy them financially.“The goal here is to break us and keep us from taking to the streets,” said Jeff Schoep, the leader of the National Socialist Movement. “That should concern all Americans, no matter where you stand on the political spectrum.”As the case moves forward, it is likely to explore the limits of the First Amendment’s broad free-speech provisions and the principle that incitements to violence are not protected. Discovery in the case may also expose the links between the far-right groups and their often opaque sources of financing.“I thought you could bring a suit under that same strategy,” Ms. Kaplan said, “against the groups in Charlottesville.”Most of the defendants are being represented by two less prominent lawyers: James Kolenich, who is based in Cincinnati, and Elmer Woodard, who works in the Virginia countryside about two hours south of Charlottesville.Before the current case, Mr. Kolenich had never represented a member of the alt-right, a far-right fringe movement that embraces white nationalism and is often anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic and anti-women.In order to prove that a conspiracy existed, the plaintiffs’ lawyers will have to show that the leaders of the rally worked together in planning and encouraging racially motivated violence. Under the law, if a conspiracy is eventually established, all of its participants can be held accountable for the actions of its separate members.Ms. Kaplan called those leaked communications “a lawyer’s gift,” and she used them in drafting her complaint. They seemed to show a Discord channel for the rally filled with calls for violence.“I’m ready to crack skulls,” one person wrote. Others said they planned to go to Charlottesville with wrenches, pipes and wooden sticks. One man claimed he was going with a cache of rifles that “will shoot clean through a crowd at least four deep.” There were also plans to shuttle people to the rally grounds in what was called a “Hate Van.”One of the defendants, Michael Peinovich, the co-host of a podcast called “The Daily Shoah,” downplayed the Discord messages as “idle chitchat” in his motion to dismiss. “Edgy humor and memes are part of Internet subculture,” Mr. Peinovich wrote, “and while some may not understand them, and some may find them offensive, the sharing of such jokes and memes cannot credibly be seen as evidence of a conspiracy to commit violence.”Another defendant, Richard B. Spencer, one of the country’s most prominent white supremacists, wrote in his dismissal motion that “harsh and bold words, as well as scuffles, are simply a reality of political protests.”Mr. Spencer, who is representing himself after several lawyers refused to take him as client, went on to say: “Free societies, not only in the United States, but around the world, accept this as a cost of free assembly and maintaining a vibrant political culture.”The chief planner of the Charlottesville event, Jason Kessler, wrote in an email this month that even though he was initially concerned about the lawsuit, he now considers it an opportunity to “go on offense.” Mr. Kessler said he plans to use the case to attack the “hoax narrative” that the right-wing marchers were responsible for the violence.“After all the lies about the event are laid out before the public and they realize how badly some very powerful people wanted to shut down our free speech rally,” he wrote, “I think the public will be hungrier than ever to hear what we actually went there to say.”In a different political climate, Mr. Mehlhorn said, the Justice Department’s civil rights division might have investigated and sued the planners of the Charlottesville protest.But, he added, “These days, we do not expect the Justice Department or government lawyers to pursue any of these actions.”Some experts on far-right extremism question whether the lawsuit will reveal anything beyond what is already known about the far-right groups, that they are hardly rich and tend to crowdsource what money they get.Professor Rosenthal said that rather than ruin the far-right groups, the lawsuit may just push them off the streets and back on to the internet, where they existed quietly for years.“Because the world is cyber,” he said, “it’s tough to put people entirely out of business.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS