AdvertisementHere’s the problem: It’s summertime and, yes, we know we should still be paying attention to personal finance issues.But really. If we’re lucky enough to get away for a few days, do we actually want to take a book about investing to the beach?Publishers have inadvertently solved the problem for us.AdvertisementThe protagonist, Anil Jha, 52, has been managing a technical training franchise and teaching computer programming on the side, enjoying a quiet life with his wife, Bindu, in a modest housing complex in East Delhi, India. He becomes wealthy overnight when he sells a website he created for what “felt like more money than was in the whole world,” the equivalent of $20 million.AdvertisementHe decides to move to “one of the richest new neighborhoods of Delhi.”Worried that he does not have the trappings of success, Mr. Jha starts aping the lifestyle of a new wealthy neighbor, who, in turn, starts to study Mr. Jha’s lifestyle. A conspicuous-consumption race follows, and one character observes, “Only the rich claim that money can’t buy happiness.”The financial lessons in the book are these:1. True financial independence comes from starting a successful business (something not all of us can do).2. Keeping up with the Joneses, or the Jhas in this case, is just silly. (And if the Jhas decide, in turn, to keep up with you, it becomes sillier.)3. It is probably a good idea to periodically re-evaluate why you are trying to acquire wealth.While Ms. Basu concentrates on upward mobility, Angelica Baker deals with what happens to the lives of the extremely rich when it all goes away.Ms. Baker’s debut novel, “Our Little Racket” (Ecco, $27.99), centers on the downfall of an investment bank C.E.O. during the financial crisis of a decade ago, told from the perspective of three women in his life: his unfulfilled spouse, his teenage daughter and the nanny.See how the largest, leading and lagging funds compare.Find funds by their type, performance, risk or expenses.Bob D’Amico — nicknamed Silverback (as in gorilla) — is trying to stave off allegations of wrongdoing as his poor decisions cause his firm, Weiss & Partners, to slowly disintegrate.While his actions tarnish his own reputation, they have a big impact on the three women who lose status in Greenwich, Conn., the New York City suburb where the D’Amicos have their primary home. (They own three others.) Gossip spreads, rumors fly and the three women are forced to fend for themselves in the wake of Weiss & Partners’ death spiral.AdvertisementThe financial lessons:1. Live within your means.2. Make sure you have adequate liquid reserves to cover an emergency. (The family is forced to auction off its art collection to pay the bills.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.3. Diversify your holdings. The family is overly invested in both real estate and the stock of Mr. D’Amico’s failing company.For pure escapism — literally, since some of the characters have the ability to leave their bodies and fly about — there is “Spoonbenders” (Knopf, $27.95), by Daryl Gregory, who is also author of the novel “Afterparty.”In his new book, a down-on-their-luck family battles two sets of issues simultaneously. On the one hand, each member is trying to come to grips with being “blessed” with extrasensory powers (the ability to see the future; telekinesis; pyrokinesis and the unfailing facility to tell if someone is lying).On the other, the entire family is fending off:The government, which wants them to become superspies.The mob, which wants its money back because one of the family members (in a remarkable lack of foresight for a psychic) has been borrowing heavily from them as he tries unsuccessfully to become an entrepreneur.A psychic debunker, “a short bald man with a ridiculous black handlebar mustache,” who is out to prove they are all frauds.The writing is crisp and frequently clever. (“They piled into Irene’s Festiva, a car that won the award for most ironic distance between name and driving experience.”) And after the bleakness of Ms. Baker’s novel and the ambiguity in Ms. Basu’s, this one has a classic happy ending.The financial lessons:1. Read financial documents carefully. One of the characters works, briefly, at a sleazy company that dupes its customers into signing away control of their investments so that the firm can churn their accounts.2. Get-rich-quick schemes invariably fail or are outright fraudulent.3. Don’t borrow from the mob.Enjoy the summer.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementPresident Trump named Rand his favorite writer and “The Fountainhead” his favorite novel. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has cited “Atlas Shrugged” as a favorite work, and the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, said the book “really had an impact on me.”As Ray Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest hedge fund, put it in a recent essay, “her books pretty well capture the mind-set” of the Trump administration. “This new administration hates weak, unproductive, socialist people and policies,” he wrote, “and it admires strong, can-do profit makers.”In business, Rand’s influence has been especially pronounced in Silicon Valley, where her overarching philosophy that “man exists for his own sake, that the pursuit of his own happiness is his highest moral purpose, that he must not sacrifice himself to others, nor sacrifice others to himself,” as she described it in a 1964 Playboy interview, has an obvious appeal for self-made entrepreneurs. Last year Vanity Fair anointed her the most influential figure in the technology industry, surpassing Steve Jobs.AdvertisementAdvertisementAnd then there’s the scandal-engulfed Trump administration, where devotion to Rand’s teaching has done little to advance the president’s legislative agenda.Though people close to Mr. Kalanick told me this week that he has distanced himself from many of Rand’s precepts while undergoing an intense period of personal reassessment, they all acknowledged that she’d had a profound influence on his development. Few companies have been as closely identified with Rand’s philosophy as Uber.Uber disrupted a complacent, highly regulated and often corrupt taxi industry on a global scale, an achievement Rand’s heroes Howard Roark and Dagny Taggart would surely have admired. Many of her ideas were embedded in Uber’s code of values. Mr. Kalanick used the original cover art for “The Fountainhead” as his Twitter avatar until 2013 (when he exchanged it for an image of Alexander Hamilton, and then, in May, for one of himself).“Rand’s entrepreneur is the Promethean hero of capitalism,” said Lawrence E. Cahoone, professor of philosophy at the College of the Holy Cross, whose lecture on Rand is part of his Great Courses series, “The Modern Political Tradition.” “But she never really explores how a dynamic entrepreneur actually runs a business.”“She was a script and fiction writer,” he continued. “She was motivated by an intense hatred of communism, and she put those things together very effectively. She can be very inspirational, especially to entrepreneurs. But she was by no means an economist. I don’t think her work can be used as a business manual.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Representatives of Uber and Mr. Kalanick declined to comment.Rand’s defenders insist that the problems for Mr. Kalanick and others influenced by Rand aren’t that they embraced her philosophy, but rather that they didn’t go far enough.Yaron Brook, executive chairman of the Ayn Rand Institute and a former finance professor at Santa Clara University, who teaches seminars on business leadership and ethics from an Objectivist perspective, said, “Few business people have actually read her essays and philosophy and studied her in depth.” Mr. Brook said that while Mr. Kalanick “was obviously talented and energetic and a visionary, he took superficial inspiration from her ideas and used her philosophy to justify his obnoxiousness.”AdvertisementHe emphasized that Rand would never have tolerated sexual harassment or any kind of mistreatment of employees. Rand “had enormous respect for people who worked hard and did a good job, whether a secretary or a railroad worker,” he said. “Her heroes ran businesses with employees who were very loyal because they were treated fairly. Of course, some people had to be fired. But she makes a big deal out of the virtue of justice, which applies in business as well as politics.”And even though “she’d celebrate what Travis did with the taxi industry, showing the world how all those regulations made no sense, she also believed there are rules of justice that do make sense and she supported,” he said. “You can’t just run over all the regulations you don’t happen to like.”Mr. Brook complained that Rand’s critics are quick to point to her followers’ failures, but rarely mention their successes. He cited the example of John A. Allison IV, the much-admired former head of BB&T Corporation, a regional bank in the Southeast that he built into one of the nation’s largest before he stepped down in 2008. Mr. Allison handed out copies of “Atlas Shrugged” to senior executives and is a major donor to the Ayn Rand Institute. He incorporated many of Rand’s teachings into his 2014 book, “The Leadership Crisis and the Free Market Cure.”“John is a gentleman and he actually studied Rand’s works in depth,” Mr. Brook said. “He couldn’t be more different from Travis.”Mr. Allison has called for abolishing the Federal Reserve, while acknowledging that so drastic a step is unlikely. He has met with Mr. Trump at the White House and has been widely mentioned as a potential successor to Janet L. Yellen as Fed chief.Despite Rand’s pervasive influence and continuing popularity on college campuses, relatively few people embrace her version of extreme libertarianism. Former President Barack Obama, in a 2012 Rolling Stone interview, criticized her “narrow vision” and described her work “as one of those things that a lot of us, when we were 17 or 18 and feeling misunderstood, we’d pick up.”She’s also dismissed by most serious academics. “Mention Ayn Rand to a group of academic philosophers and you’ll get laughed out of the room,” Mr. Cahoone said. “But I think there’s something to be said for Rand. She takes Nietzschean individualism to an extreme, but she’s undeniably inspirational.”As the mysterious character John Galt proclaims near the end of “Atlas Shrugged”: “Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate, the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish, in lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but have never been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it is possible, it’s yours.”But Rand has little to say about making the transition from this kind of heroic entrepreneurial vision to a mature corporation with many stakeholders, a problem many company founders have confronted and struggled with, whether or not they’ve read or been influenced by her. “She never really had to manage anything,” Mr. Cahoone said. “She was surrounded by people who saw her as a cult figure. She didn’t have employees, she had worshipers.”AdvertisementFor his part, Mr. Kalanick is said to have turned this summer from Rand to what is considered one of the greatest dramatic works in the English language, Shakespeare’s “Henry V” — a play in which the young, reckless and wayward Prince Hal matures into one of England’s most revered and beloved monarchs.An earlier version of this column misstated Andrew F. Puzder’s association with CKE Restaurants. He is a former chief executive of the company, not its current chief.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEssayAmid what was becoming a debate among left-leaning academics and populist tribunes like Rush Limbaugh and Lynne Cheney, Schlesinger sought to define a liberal alternative to what he described as militant multiculturalism on the left and bigoted monoculturalism on the right: “The monoculturalists are hyperpatriots, fundamentalists, evangelicals, laissez-faire doctrinaires, homophobes, anti-abortionists, pro-assault-gun people.” Of the two groups, Schlesinger considered the monoculturalists a greater threat: “Left-wing political correctness is an irritation and a nuisance. It becomes a threat to the young only when it invades the public schools.” In contrast: “Right-wing political correctness catches kids before they are old enough to take care of themselves and in environments where they are rarely exposed to clashes of opinion. It is a weapon with which small-town bigots, conducting pogroms against Darwin, Marx, J.D. Salinger, Judy Blume and other villains, seize control of school committees and library boards.”According to Schlesinger, “Monoculturalists abuse history as flagrantly as multiculturalists. They sanitize the past and install their own set of patriotic heroes and myths.” In a chapter titled “History the Weapon,” Schlesinger acknowledges what he sees as the valid complaints of multiculturalists: “American history was long written in the interests of white Anglo-Saxon Protestant males. My father, growing up in the 1890s in Xenia, a small Ohio town containing large contingents of Germans, Irish and blacks, one day asked his father, who had come from Germany as a child and whose hero was Carl Schurz, the American general, politician and reformer, why the schoolbooks portrayed England as the one and only mother country. My grandfather’s wry comment was that apparently the only Germans worth mentioning were ‘the Hessians who had fought on the wrong side in the War for Independence.’ Irish and blacks fared even less well in schoolbooks, and the only good Indians were dead Indians. Non-WASPs were the invisible men (and women) in the American past.”Schlesinger notes one predictable response by minorities to their exclusion from mainstream historical texts and commemorations: “The ethnic enclaves thus developed a compensatory literature.” To illustrate this, he quotes from the Irish-American scholar John V. Kelleher about articles claiming “that the Continental Army was 76 percent Irish, or that many of George Washington’s closest friends were nuns or priests.” However badly the “white ethnics” suffered from Anglo-Saxon Protestant condescension, Schlesinger notes, blacks, Latinos and Native Americans suffered far worse: “The situation is radically different for nonwhite minorities facing not snobbism but racism.”But Schlesinger maintains that what he calls “compensatory history” is bad history, whether it takes the form of Afrocentrism, or the claim that other regions have falsely taken credit for inventions that originated in Africa, or what he, following Kelleher, calls “the there’s-always-an-Irishman-at-the-bottom-of-it-doing-the-real-work approach to American history.” These views ceased to be harmless folly when their holders enlisted the support of federal, state or local governments to impose them as official versions of history, Schlesinger argues: “ ‘Who controls the past controls the future,’ runs the Party slogan in George Orwell’s ‘1984’; ‘who controls the present controls the past.’ ”At worst, Schlesinger writes, the sanctioning of state ethnonational ideologues could Balkanize American society further. He denounces the federal 1974 Ethnic Heritage Studies Program Act because it “ignored those millions of Americans — surely a majority — who refused identification with any particular ethnic group.” Schlesinger may have seen himself in the latter group. His paternal ancestors included Prussian Jews and Austrian Catholics, while his mother was a descendant of the Mayflower colonists and supposedly related to the 19th-century American historian George Bancroft.“I don’t want to sound too apocalyptic about these developments,” Schlesinger writes. Indeed, unlike many of his contemporaries who criticized multiculturalism, he did not see Latino immigration as either a linguistic or a social challenge to American national unity. Schlesinger noted: “As for Hispanic-Americans, first-generation Hispanics born in the United States speak English fluently, according to a Rand Corporation study; more than half of second-generation Hispanics give up Spanish altogether.” Subsequent social science studies by Stephen Trejo, Richard Alba and others have confirmed that marriage outside of the group and erosion of ethnic identity tends to increase with each generation of Latinos, as it did in the case of European immigrant diasporas in the United States in the past.Like other memorable tracts for the times, “The Disuniting of America” blends passages of enduring relevance with much that has become obsolete. Today, what is most striking about this book and other entries in the late-20th-century battle of the books is the assumption shared by all sides in the canon wars that the fate of the nation might depend on the content of the curriculum, as determined by academic experts.Since Schlesinger wrote, there has been a collapse in the authority of establishments of all kinds, not just academics. In the age of Twitter and Facebook and 24-hour cable news, public intellectuals like Schlesinger, based in the academy or in journalism, have lost influence over public opinion to movie stars, cable commentators, pop musicians and late-night comedians.Perhaps the greatest change has involved the declining status of liberal arts education and the historical studies at its core. In response to decades of slower-than-expected growth and heightened foreign competition, students deserted the humanities for more practical degrees like business. Meanwhile, in the 2000s and 2010s the bipartisan elite shared a new consensus that national success depended not on widespread liberal arts education but on student proficiency in science, technology, engineering and math. The debate over federal “no child left behind” standards that aimed to increase the number of Americans who go into engineering or science eclipsed the debates over the content of the American historical pantheon. The only academics who seem to find audiences among today’s elite are economists and social scientists who claim to know how to boost gross domestic product or manipulate human behavior.Today the canon wars have given way to the icon wars. Although the focus of controversy has shifted from the contents of undergraduate education to the historical figures commemorated by statues and currency, debates over America’s past continue to mirror debates over America’s present and future. To the challenges of teaching history in a way that is at once accurate and inclusive, Schlesinger remains an insightful guide.Michael Lind, a professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, is the author of “Land of Promise: An Economic History of the United States.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseInvestors have seemingly been oblivious to claims of Russian interference in the election, the firing of a director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the appointment of a special prosecutor. As the second quarter ends this week, 2017 has so far been a banner year, with major indexes hitting records.But as the bull market rolls on, some see storm clouds on the horizon. “Valuations are high and it’s one of the longest and largest bull markets in history,” said James Stack, president of InvesTech Research. “Bull markets don’t last forever. So the question is, when will the music stop?”Investors “are on a knife’s edge,” said Michael J. Kelly, global head of asset allocation for PineBridge Investments. With many still scarred by the financial crisis, “they see a potential disaster around every corner.”This month the so-called Faang stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google, which have led the market’s rally — faced a sudden downdraft, which many market watchers called a warning of turbulent times to come. Those jitters were on display Thursday, as tech shares led a sell-off that put a dent in the major indexes.And then there’s Mr. Trump himself, whose unpredictability and erratic behavior still have the potential to rattle markets.So I asked some prominent investors and market analysts whether they were pulling back from stocks, and how they viewed these latest developments.There’s no question that these market darlings, which together have accounted for a disproportionate percentage of the market’s gains, are expensive, and getting more so. Price-to-earnings ratios range from 38 (Facebook) to 184 (Amazon). Their market caps are so huge they dominate the indexes. They show up not only in so-called growth funds, but also in value and low-volatility funds. Should they embark on a sustained plunge, a bear market could quickly follow.The tremor in June was “a warning shot across the bow,” said Bill Smead, the founder of Smead Capital Management in Seattle. The Faang stocks “are showing all the classic signs of being overcooked,” he added. “What magazine hasn’t had Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg on the cover? There’s no question this can end very badly. But the market can stay irrational for a very long time. My sense is that there’s one big blowout rally left in these stocks.”Mr. Stack noted that the Faang stocks had brief sell-offs last June and October, only to rebound. Still, he said, “the Faang stocks will be among the hardest hit in the next bear market due to the amount of money that flowed into them and the high expectations that have driven them higher.”But like Mr. Smead, he doesn’t expect that to be imminent. “We’re not buying them, but we’re not necessarily saying sell,” Mr. Stack said. He urged investors to rebalance portfolios that have become too heavily weighted in these stocks.Everyone I interviewed agreed that the Fed is the most likely catalyst for the next bear market, but that may still be years away.“Historically it’s difficult to find a bear market that wasn’t triggered to some extent by the Fed,” Mr. Smead said. “But I don’t think unwinding the long bond position as gradually as they’re going to will have a significant impact. What would have an impact is if the Fed is forced to raise rates faster than everyone anticipates. The Fed has prepared investors for one more rate hike this year. That’s where the potential surprise could come. If we see two or three by year’s end, we’re going to see definite headwinds and maybe a market top of some significance.”Mr. Kelly said the Fed had plenty of room to maneuver before stocks start to be affected. “We just had a once-in-70-year crisis that left very long scars. Businesses basically didn’t invest for eight years. In tightening, the Fed is acknowledging that a monetary policy built on a very fragile economic backdrop is no longer appropriate. But we’re just getting to the point now where people are crawling out of their shells and we’re seeing more normal economic activity.”Mr. Kelly said bull markets typically last another three to four years after such a point in the economic cycle, and can even go another eight or nine. “Bull markets die from excess, not old age,” he said.Mr. Smead agreed. “There’s no question we’re getting closer to normal rates,” he said. “That will be difficult for the stock market when it happens. People will be less willing to be adventurous. But that’s still years away.”Over at InvesTech Research, “we’re still quite bullish,” Mr. Stack said. “We’re not increasing cash reserves. We are rebalancing towards more defensive and out-of-favor sectors, like consumer staples and health care.”“The risks don’t lie with potential charges of obstruction of justice or even impeachment,” Mr. Stack said. “For political mayhem to upset the economic apple cart, it has to irreparably damage confidence at the consumer and business level. So far we don’t see that happening. Consumer confidence and consumer sentiment measures are at 16-year highs, and C.E.O. confidence in April was the highest since 2004.”Nor have investors given up hope that a Republican Congress will still deliver business-friendly corporate tax reform and a pro-growth overhaul of the tax code, despite the president’s troubles.At the same time, “Trump shouldn’t be looking to the market for vindication,” Mr. Smead said. “I wouldn’t call it a Trump rally. He’s basically riding on the Obama years. “His bottom line: “We don’t pay much attention to politics, and that’s been a good thing.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe devastating recession that began at the end of 2007 and officially ended in June 2009 was the most severe downturn since World War II.The fact that people living outside big cities were battered so acutely by the recession goes a long way toward explaining President Trump’s victory in the last election.The greater Los Angeles region — like other densely populated metropolitan areas such as Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, and Dallas County in Texas — recovered strongly and swiftly and supported the Democratic Party in Nov. 2016, from candidates for local office to the president.The chart shows that since the bottom of the recession in the fourth quarter of 2009, metropolitan areas have fully bounced back and are now significantly above their pre-recession employment levels. In contrast, employment in non-metro areas remains well below its pre-recession level.From another vantage point, Trump did best in regions where economic growth was the worst — where jobs are disappearing and where middle-aged white men and women are dying at younger ages.In the period from 1992 to 1996, communities of 100,000 or less were engines of growth, producing 27 percent of the nation’s new jobs. The large metropolitan areas with populations of over one million produced 16 percent.By 2010 to 2014, the share of new jobs in the lowest population counties shrank to 9 percent, while the share produced in the largest counties grew from 16 to 41 percent.Put still another way, counties with populations below one million have seen their share of job creation drop from 84 percent of the national total in 1992-96 to 78 percent in 2002-06 — and then abruptly plummet to 59 percent in 2010-14.The pattern of net new business creation (new firms minus firms going out of business) reveals an even sharper reversal of fortune. In 1992-96, counties with fewer than 100,000 people produced 32 percent of new enterprises, while the biggest counties produced 13 percent.By 2010-14, very rural counties saw zero net growth in new firms, while the biggest counties boomed with 58 percent of new firms. All counties with populations under a million created 87 percent of the nation’s new businesses from 1992-1996, but the number was 42 percent in 2010-14.In other words, the centuries-long shift of economic activity from country and small town areas to populous urban regions has sharply accelerated over the past 10 years. The result is that “America faces a small-county crisis of dire proportions,” as Mark Muro, a senior fellow at Brookings put it, “and a period of opportunity in cities, the bigger the better.”There is a combination of forces driving these trends, according to Muro, most especially the growing importance of the high tech and digital industries. “Urbanization,” he wrote me,has become a major trend in the last decade or so, driven by the clustering of workers and firms in larger cities. The increased digitization of the economy has accelerated this dynamic, and ensured that changing skills demands have changed what places are best valued.At the same time, Muro noted by email:Rural America has been hammered by the end of the immediate post-crisis commodity boom and now there is precious little relief there: Agricultural prices are low, coal prices and automation are hammering coal country, natural gas prices are suffering from glut conditions, and meanwhile, no subdivision of the economy is suffering from more moribund employment growth.The rural crisis, according to Muro, “isn’t just economic but is now compounded by the rising mortality rates” described in detail by the economists Anne Case and Angus Deaton.a more complete picture of midlife mortality — by sex and education group, over the full age range of midlife, using shorter age windows, over time, by cause, and by small geographic areas.The Case-Deaton description of rising midlife mortality — especially an increase of “deaths of despair” from alcohol, opioids and suicide — is, in effect, a demographic portrait of many of Trump’s core supporters: whites with a high school degree or less living in rural to medium-sized towns and cities.Case and Deaton show that from 1999 to 2015 mortality rates among non-college whites rose in every age group, most especially among younger whites aged 25-34.The accompanying chart shows the rising “deaths of despair” rates for whites without college degrees, compared to the virtually unchanging rates for whites with degrees.Case and Deaton found that mortality rates for whites were stable or declining in all counties with populations of one million or more — the counties, in other words, that voted decisively for Clinton. Conversely, white mortality rates rose by roughly one percent a year in all counties of less than a million — the counties that voted for Trump.In an email, Bishop noted thatoutside of cities of a million or more — and really outside of the 56 central city counties of these large metros — Democrats lose.Bishop argued in his email to me that “the split isn’t just about politics. It’s about lifestyle and identity.” Increasingly, where you liveis tied into lifestyle and lifestyle aligns with politics. Politics, like lifestyle, is one way we construct our identities.The accelerated shift toward urban prosperity and exurban-to-rural stagnation reinforces polarizing disagreements between city and country on matters ranging from family values to education to child rearing practices to religious faith.Much attention has been paid to one daunting task facing Republicans: the need to prevent liberal values and ideas from seeping beyond large, urban counties into red counties and states.As the last election demonstrated, the compact geographical distribution of Democratic voters with liberal or progressive ideologies in states that were already blue allowed Trump to win in the Electoral College despite a sizable Democratic victory in the popular vote.Democrats, in turn, must figure out a way to extend their reach beyond the mega-population centers located mostly on the coasts, where cosmopolitan, globalist and post-materialist values dominate.Trump supporters’ politics may be filtered through the perverse lenses of racial anxiety and cultural reaction. But they are not wrong to look upon cities as distant and alien metropolises that have benefited at rural America’s expense.“So what’s the fix?” Spross asks.Return to the old ways of robust public investment, antitrust enforcement, and tax and regulatory policy to force money back down the income ladder. Stop treating deficit reduction as a goal in itself; rather whatever deficit level maintains full employment is the right one.The technological revolution poses a major problem for Democrats seeking ways to make economic outcomes more equitable by geography and class.McAfee noted that, given current trends,We’ll continue to see the middle class hollowed out and will see growth at the low and high ends. Really good executives, entrepreneurs, investors, and novelists — they will all reap rewards. Yo-Yo Ma won’t be replaced by a robot anytime soon, but financially, I wouldn’t want to be the world’s 100th-best cellist.Brynjolfsson argued, however, that the economic consequences of technological advance can be shaped by policy:Our one confident prediction is that digital technologies will bring the world into an era of more wealth and abundance and less drudgery and toil. But there’s no guarantee that everyone will share in the bounty, and that leaves many people justifiably apprehensive. The outcome — shared prosperity or increasing inequality — will be determined not by technologies but by the choices we make as individuals, organizations, and societies. If we fumble that future — if we build economies and societies that exclude many people from the cycle of prosperity — shame on us. Technological progress is an extraordinarily powerful force, but it’s not destiny. It won’t lift us into utopia or carry us into an unwanted future. The power to do that rests with us human beings. Technologies are merely our tools.For the moment, the Democratic Party is forced to stand by and watch the Trump spectacle, unable to enact policies to address the issues Spross, Brynjolfsson, and McAfee raise. Would better candidates help to enlarge the electorate to appeal to voters whose primary concerns are economic?All three have been elected and re-elected in competitive states where to survive politically they have had to balance urban and non-metro bread-and-butter interests.Shifting the focus of attention onto politicians like these would be a modest first step, but for a party struggling to regain its foothold, a modest first step would be a major achievement. The question going forward is whether Democrats can compete more effectively and more efficiently for the votes of those who have been left behind. They should set themselves this challenge.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseFor Fortune magazine in 1999, Jack Welch, then General Electric’s chief executive, wasn’t just the country’s best executive, or the manager of the year, but nothing less than the best manager of the 20th century, “far and away the most influential manager of his generation.”Mr. Welch himself was more circumspect. “My success will be determined by how well my successor grows it in the next 20 years,” he said at a management conference that year.Eighteen years later, with this week’s announcement that Mr. Welch’s handpicked successor, Jeffrey R. Immelt, would step down as G.E.’s chief executive, the verdict would appear to be in.“Given how horrendous the stock performance has been for so many years, the most amazing thing is why the board didn’t act sooner” to replace Mr. Immelt, said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.Mr. Welch brought much needed energy and charisma to the chief executive’s job and streamlined G.E.’s bloated bureaucracy. Had he stayed on through the financial crisis, perhaps he would have recaptured the growth that eluded Mr. Immelt.But hardly anyone considers Mr. Welch, now 81, a management role model anymore, and the conglomerate model he championed at G.E. — that with strict discipline, you could successfully manage any business as long as your market share was first or second — has been thoroughly discredited, at least in the United States.No wonder, given the performance of the company’s stock over the past 10 years. G.E. shares dropped 25 percent during that period, in contrast with a 59 percent rise for the S.&P. 500. The rival industrial conglomerate Honeywell’s stock has more than doubled, and Danaher’s has tripled. United Technologies gained 67 percent.Nonetheless, Mr. Immelt remained one of the country’s highest-paid executives: $21.3 million in 2016, $33 million in 2015, and $37 million in 2014. Even without a formal severance package, Mr. Immelt, 61, will get an additional $211 million when he retires, Fortune estimates.“I’m a long-term G.E. shareholder,” Mr. Elson said. “The bottom line is, I did poorly and he did very well.”Speaking of his tenure as G.E.’s leader, Mr. Immelt pointed to the increased strength of the company’s industrial businesses, their competitiveness and large market shares.“I’ll say that will stand the test of time,” he said in an interview on Monday with my colleague Steve Lohr. “Let other people make their own judgments.”Mr. Immelt’s defenders have pointed out that he had to contend with the collapse of the tech bubble, the Sept. 11 attacks and the financial crisis, all circumstances beyond his control. But so did the chief executives of every other major company.“About the best that can be said is that he enabled G.E. to survive through a difficult time,” said Bruce Greenwald, professor of finance and asset management at Columbia. “But he never really understood how to create value through growth.”And he inherited “a highly inflated stock price,” Mr. Greenwald said, thanks to Mr. Welch’s aura and lofty expectations that probably no one could have met.As Aswath Damodaran, a finance professor at the New York University Stern School of Business, put it, “It’s always tough to follow a legend.”“Jeff Immelt brought his best every day for 16 years,” Mr. Welch said in a statement. His office said he was not available to comment about his own legacy.Mr. Immelt tacitly repudiated the Welch model himself, moving to dismantle parts of the sprawling G.E. empire by getting rid of NBCUniversal and the once-too-big-to-fail GE Capital. The problem, many critics said, is that he didn’t do so nearly fast enough.“I don’t think Jack Welch was ever as good as he was made out to be,” said Mr. Damodaran, who has spent years trying to value G.E. During Mr. Welch’s tenure, “he benefited from the growth of financial services in the American economy and the growth of GE Capital,” Mr. Damodaran added. “That’s what made it untouchable for so long.”Mr. Damodaran said he warned G.E. executives in 2005 that complexity could become a problem. “If you wanted to create a valuation hell, it would be G.E.,” he said. “It was too complex by design, growing through numerous acquisitions. I told them back then, ‘You’re getting away with this now, but if there’s ever a crisis, it will come back to haunt you.’”Mr. Greenwald, the Columbia professor, agreed that much of G.E.’s success, and then its problems, stemmed from an overreliance on its huge financial services business. “It was contributing 60 percent of profits, and Jack Welch could always tweak the earnings by turning to GE Capital,” he said. “But it had no stable source of deposits” to fall back on in the financial crisis.That is the main reason G.E.’s rivals have fared so much better, Mr. Greenwald said. “They were never the broad conglomerate G.E. was, with huge financing businesses,” he said. “They’re much more focused on industrial production.”Both Mr. Greenwald and Mr. Damodaran said the Welch conglomerate model had been thoroughly repudiated, so much so that there is a widely recognized “conglomerate discount” applied by investors to the stock prices of companies consisting of businesses with no obvious synergies. Activist investors have pounced on this to urge the breakup of disparate operations, and G.E. itself has been the target of the activist investor Nelson Peltz.“Specialization is something that provides real value,” Mr. Greenwald said. “If you’re a conglomerate, by definition you’re not specialized.”Even companies like Honeywell and United Technologies “aren’t trying to do everything,” he added. “They have areas of specialization.”Mr. Damodaran said few of the world’s conglomerates, if any, are superstars.“They may be doing better than G.E., but they all suffer from similar problems,” he said. “They’re not nimble and adaptable. It’s much harder to be a conglomerate today than it was 20 or 30 years ago. The Welch model is certainly dated. Maybe it’s still used in a few old-line manufacturing businesses, but not in the rest of the economy, where a start-up can destroy your business.”Even though Mr. Immelt deserves praise for abandoning the Welch model, Mr. Damodaran said, he did it much too late. “They’d be much better off if they’d started sooner,” he said.In a statement, a General Electric spokeswoman said, “Today, G.E. is a more focused industrial company with strong growth opportunities in the long term.”That left investors salivating for more divestitures or spinoffs. “Does anyone really think there are any synergies between medical equipment and jet engines?” Mr. Greenwald asked. “A complicated, specialized business like medical equipment would be much better on its own.”More divestitures may well result in pretty much the same G.E. that Mr. Welch inherited, which is “a boring, mature company,” Mr. Damodaran said. “This isn’t a company that’s going to work miracles. Even if well run, about the best G.E. can hope for is to grow at the rate of the economy. But that may be the best-case scenario. If it tries to rediscover its youth, that would make me nervous.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEach in its own way, the Trump administration, the Republican Senate and the Republican House face ideological conflicts between fiscal conservatism, white identity politics and right-wing populism.Their interests converge in a shared antipathy to immigration and to programs seen as disproportionately benefiting racial and ethnic minorities. It’s when their interests diverge that battles erupt.The number of whites dependent on safety net programs is far larger than the number of African Americans, at 2.8 million, or Hispanics, at 2.4 million.The second case in point: Trump’s support of the legislation endorsed by Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House, to repeal and replace Obamacare.The voters hit the hardest — eligible for at least $5,000 less in tax credits under the Republican plan — supported Mr. Trump by a margin of 59 percent to 36 percent.At the Boys and Girls Club in this rural city in southern Oklahoma, the director is unsure how he will stay open if President Trump’s proposed budget goes through, eliminating money for several staff positions.Similar conversations are happening at the Oklahoma Shakespearean Festival’s after-school arts program, which relies on National Endowment for the Arts grants that Trump wants to eliminate. And at the county senior center, which already lost its state funding and could lose all or most of its federal funding, too. And at the Farm Service Center, which supports 1,200 local producers and is staffed with employees whose positions were targeted in the budget.The predicament facing white conservatives is that after the enactment of civil rights laws, they have found it difficult, if not impossible, to structure programs to benefit the white working class and poor without also benefiting disadvantaged African-Americans and Hispanics.Until now, the Tea Party-era Republican response has been to press for across the board cuts in safety net programs.“Rather than instituting new programs or terminating old ones, this strategy involved paring at the margins. Rules for access, eligibility and benefits were tightened up and ‘adjusted,’ ” they write, often through bureaucratic decisions kept “out of the political limelight.”As a rule, policies like these sell.ended the country’s only cash entitlement program for poor families with children, replacing it with a fixed-budget, state-administered program that offers lifetime-limited cash assistance to some but not all needy families and requires recipients to participate in work activity as a condition of receipt.That law is a case study in the effort to take benefits away from the supposedly undeserving poor. With the passage of his Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, Clinton became the first two-term elected Democrat to serve in the White House since Franklin Roosevelt.Fiscal conservatism can use policy design to force retrenchment that favors white voters over minority voters. Changes like these are frequently masked in bureaucratic language.In the realm of social spending, Trump has positioned himself on the side of fiscal conservatives. On infrastructure, however, he and Bannon, who just lost his seat on the National Security Council, are on a different track. They are pledged to an immense public works agenda generating jobs that would be appealing and available to white and nonwhite working class voters — hard-core budget hawks be damned.The voters spoke with a thunderclap. Trump squashed his 16 GOP rivals — a group that was touted as the most talented field of contenders in modern history — as if they were bugs crashing into his windshield. Republican voters opted for his new breed of economic populism.Moore continued:A realignment occurred while all the high-falutin’ intellectuals and political consultants were napping.Just as Trump in his business and personal life has demonstrated a dogged willingness to bet the house — without inhibition and with limited forethought — he is now embarking on one last enormous and divisive wager. In this case, however, the house he is betting is not just his. It belongs to all of us.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementI have worked for a man who owns his-and-her 747s. Another former employer has a 10,000-acre hobby farm he visits about 10 times a year. And, in a total coincidence, I have been hired by two people who each happen to own one of the 25 largest yachts in the world, boats that come with 12 times the living space of my house and are equipped not only with fully stocked wine cellars but also with helicopters and submarines.So I know what wealthy is. And I know my wife and I are not.However, my wife’s consulting business is recognized nationally in her part of the universe, and every 10 years or so I write a book that sells a few copies, so we are doing O.K. No, we haven’t ever chartered a private jet, ordered a $1,000 bottle of wine at a restaurant or bought a $10,000 watch. But we did manage (barely) to put our four children through the (very expensive) colleges of their choice.After we had paid boatloads of tuition for 11 years, a funny thing happened: When the baby — all 6 feet 2 inches and 175 pounds of him — graduated, we relearned the meaning of discretionary income.AdvertisementSo we have made a decision that gets some people to look at us strangely.We have started to give our children some of our money.AdvertisementWe are not setting up substantial trust funds. Heck, we are not even fully taking advantage of the tax code that says I could give each kid $14,000 a year, and Alison could, too, so that we could end up gifting each of our four children $28,000 a year with no tax consequences to either us or them.We are not even averaging half of that. But for the last four years, right around the holidays, we have given them checks — along with traditional presents. So far the total allotted in aggregate to the four of them adds up to about three years of higher education at a good private college.They have each parked the money in low-cost, diversified index funds.Why would we ever give them our money? A couple of friends asked this question in horror — figuring we could use the funds, or it would be better to wait until after my wife and I die.My answer is threefold.Child No. 2 and his wife are house hunting. Child No. 3 and her fiancé soon will be. And Child No. 4, the aforementioned rather tall baby, is planning on starting a restaurant. They have legitimate uses for the money — now.AdvertisementOur friends listen to all this, and sometimes they have questions like, “Aren’t you concerned you are giving them money you may need someday?”The other common question is whether we’re worried about what our kids might do with the money.That answer is a flat no.For one thing, it is not all that much. Each of the children makes more — in some cases, a lot more — in a year than they have gotten in total.For another, they are pretty levelheaded young people. If they are going to make bad choices, they are going to make them no matter when they get the funds. (When we started doing this, the baby was 23.)While I find my friends’ reactions intriguing, I found our children’s reactions fascinating — and totally in character for each of them.Child No. 1, a finance/logistics guy for a San Francisco start-up, cited the longstanding “time value of money” concept, which states that the value of money right now is greater than it will be in the future because of the earning power it has today.“Oh,” he said. “You are giving us part of our inheritance now. Time value of money, and all that. Cool. Your grandson thanks you for helping to pay his college tuition.”AdvertisementChild No. 2, who has always been a bit of hoarder, said “thanks” — and instantly deposited it in his mutual fund.Child No. 3, who has never cared about money, tried to persuade us to spend it on ourselves. She took the check reluctantly — and with the strong understanding of just how much it is going to cost her and her soon-to-be husband to buy a house in or near Boston.Child No. 4, the budding restaurateur, said, “Thanks, guys!” and went back to planning his potential menu.I will not waste a minute worrying about how they are going to spend the money. And I am glad we gave it to them.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIn a period of otherwise extended market calm, geopolitics have been driving periodic bouts of volatility. Even small investors have been making bets on the impact politics can have on stocks and other asset classes. After last week’s sell-off, I got a wave of questions from people asking whether Mr. Trump might be impeached and if they should sell stocks.AdvertisementI obviously can’t answer the first question. As for selling stocks, my answer, as it has been consistently since the election, is “no,” at least not because of the troubles swirling around the president.AdvertisementConsider what has happened in the days since the headline-making news. By the middle of this week, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had recovered virtually everything it lost after the Trump-Russia news broke, and on Thursday it closed at a new high.Brazil’s Bovespa index regained much of the ground it lost last week and was in positive territory for the year to date.Within a month of Brexit, European stocks had recovered nearly all their losses. This year European stock markets have been notching new highs.Political crises often do not in themselves have lasting negative effects on the stock markets. London’s FTSE recovered soon after the shock of the Brexit vote, and indexes in the United States and Brazil have turned up since the initial reaction to last week’s crises in those countries.Reactions of world markets to recent crisesF.T.S.E. 100BRITAINJUNE 23, 2016  Brexit vote passes, as Britain votes to leave the European Union.6,6006,4006,2006,000Day after5,800108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTERS. & P. 500UNITED STATESMAY 16, 2017  Reports surface that President Trump had tried to stop an F.B.I. investigation of his former national security adviser.2,5002,4502,4002,3502,3002,250Day after2,200108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTERBovespaBRAZILMAY 17, 2017  News breaks that President Michel Temer of Brazil had taken millions of dollars in graft payments.70,00068,00066,00064,00062,000Day after60,000108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTEREven some of Wall Street’s most famous and successful investors have been struggling this year to turn political upheaval into market gains. Paulson & Company and Soros Fund Management, two of the best-known global macro hedge funds, which make bets on geopolitical events, lost billions last year according to an annual hedge fund ranking compiled by LCH Investments. Paul Tudor Jones’s Tudor Investment, another macro fund, was flat, and Mr. Jones recently told investors he’s taking on more risk and shifting to more quantitative strategies in an effort to enhance performance.A macro hedge fund index compiled by Hedge Fund Research is down nearly 1 percent since Jan. 1 and over 4 percent for the last 12 months, one of the worst performing hedge fund indexes. Meanwhile, the S.&P. 500 gained almost 10 percent in 2016 and is up more than 7 percent this year.By and large, “investors should tune out political events,” said James B. Stack, president of InvesTech Research and Stack Financial Management, who has done a study of what he calls “crisis events” and their effect on markets. “Historically speaking, and as a seasoned investor, I’d say investors should just ignore geopolitical events like Brexit or whatever is happening in Brazil.”The problem, Mr. Stack’s research has found, is that “geopolitical events may be widely feared, and there will often be a knee-jerk market reaction when they’re unexpected, but seldom do they have a lasting impact. Underlying economic trends and monetary policy are far more important.”AdvertisementMarkus Schomer, chief economist at the asset manager PineBridge Investments, made a similar point. As fundamental investors with longer time horizons, “we try not to be distracted by the political noise,” he said. “I’ve been telling even our traders with shorter time horizons that what we’re seeing doesn’t really affect the economy or monetary policy, which is more important for markets than anything else.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Stack noted that stocks declined sharply after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But the bear market and recession that followed the technology bubble that exploded in 2000 were already well underway by then. September 2001 turned out to be an unusually bad time to sell stocks: By New Year’s Day 2002, little more than three months after the post-9/11 low reached on Sept. 21, the S.&P. 500 had gained close to 20 percent.A more recent example was the showdown over the federal debt ceiling in 2011, when Standard & Poor’s downgraded United States government securities for the first time amid fears the government might default on its debt. “Stocks dropped 15 percent in less than two months and we were on the brink of a bear market,” Mr. Stack said. “Once the crisis was resolved, stocks came roaring back,” and had regained all their losses by year-end.Of 11 major geopolitical events examined by Mr. Stack’s firm, only two — the Nazi invasion of France in May 1940, and Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor in December 1941 — led to market losses over one-week, three-month and one-year periods (and in the case of Pearl Harbor, the one-year decline was less than 1 percent).President John F. Kennedy’s assassination had no discernible impact: Stocks were up more than 20 percent a year later.As geopolitical crises go, those were pretty big shocks to markets and investor psychology. So far, nothing in the Trump administration has come close. Still, expectations that Mr. Trump and a Republican Congress would succeed in enacting business- and shareholder-friendly tax and regulatory changes are part of what has driven recent market gains.Mr. Stack noted that measures of confidence among small businesses, chief executives and consumers are at or near record levels. “There’s no doubt that expectations have accelerated since the election,” he said. “So the question is whether political turmoil will turn those expectations upside down,” leading to a loss of confidence and lower consumer spending. That could happen, but so far, “we’re not seeing any evidence of that,” he said.He said comparisons to the Watergate-era bear market of 1973-74 were off base, because then the country was in recession, the Arab oil crisis sent gasoline prices surging, inflation was raging and interest rates hit record highs. Arguably, President Richard M. Nixon’s abandonment of the gold standard and the transition to market-determined currency exchange rates had more to do with plunging stock prices than his crumbling presidency.Mr. Schomer said a failure to act upon many of Mr. Trump’s spending and tax proposals might not be such a bad thing for markets, given that the United States economy is already at or close to full employment and doesn’t need additional stimulus. “At the end of the day, the only reason we’ll have a recession is if the Fed is forced to raise interest rates too quickly, unless we have a massive crisis, which I don’t see happening,” he said.AdvertisementIf anything, history suggests that long-term investors should buy stocks after markets fall on bad geopolitical news, not sell. But that’s not to say this time won’t prove to be an exception, or that markets won’t correct for other reasons.Whatever happens with President Trump, the United States is in the ninth year of the second-longest bull market since World War II; none have made it past 10 years. Valuations are getting stretched. Sooner or later, there will be another correction, and eventually a bear market.Nonetheless, Mr. Schomer says he sees no imminent end to the bull market. “We’re not going to see a 25 percent surge this year, but this economic cycle is so slow and steady with so few imbalances, we could end up with 8 to 10 percent gains the next few years and a much greater degree of overvaluation.”For his part, Mr. Stack said: “We still believe this market will hit new highs in 2017, but the low volatility and the high valuations suggest this is not a low-risk market. It’s not a market in which you should be investing large sums of new capital.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSince The Washington Post’s Watergate-era glory days, my need to read that paper has waxed and waned. I already pay for and scour The New York Times (of course), The Wall Street Journal and The New Yorker, which is a lot to manage before I even get to the books on my night stand and Kindle. So I haven’t been looking for more to read, let alone another monthly expense.But for some time, a Washington Post logo with the caption “Breaking News” has been popping onto my laptop’s screen. I’m not sure how The Post insinuated itself into my prime digital real estate, since I don’t recall inviting it there. And I’d probably find it annoying and intrusive if the breaking news weren’t so interesting.That’s when I learned I’d bumped up against The Post’s pay barrier, along with the flattering observation that “You obviously love great journalism.” And for just 99 cents for the first four weeks and a few more clicks, I could keep reading. Who could resist?AdvertisementI became a subscriber for the first time, and The Post had just monetized its scoop.Advertisement“The published numbers speculating about our subscription and ad revenue have so underestimated the reality that it’s comical,” The Post’s chief revenue officer, Jed Hartman, told me this week. “Our digital ad revenue is in the solid nine figures,” that is, in excess of $100 million. This year, he added, “we’ll have our third straight year of double-digit revenue growth.”Craig Huber, a veteran media and newspaper analyst and founder of Huber Research Partners, said that while he had not seen The Post’s data, the gains reported are striking. “I’m very, very surprised by those numbers,” he said. “No one else is even coming close. If that’s correct, I’m very impressed.”To be sure, as with other newspapers, The Post’s economic picture is still encumbered by print, where declines in circulation and advertising revenue continue unabated. And its digital rebound has most likely come from a modest base.AdvertisementScoops — and high-quality journalism more generally — are integral to The Post’s business model at a time when the future of digital journalism seemed to be veering toward the lowest common denominator of exploding watermelons and stupid pet tricks.“Investigative reporting is absolutely critical to our business model,” Mr. Baron told me. “We add value. We tell people what they didn’t already know. We hold government and powerful people and institutions accountable. This cannot happen without financial support. We’re at the point where the public realizes that and is willing to step up and support that work by buying subscriptions.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said digital subscriptions had soared this week in the wake of the latest Russia revelations, as they have with other scoops. In the first quarter of this year, The Post says, it added hundreds of thousands of new digital subscribers. (It would not disclose the overall number of subscribers.)Investigative journalism also drives advertising, Mr. Hartman said. “It’s what elevates our brand,” he said. “And other brands want to attach themselves to a trusted brand.”Mr. Huber, the analyst, concurred. “The only future for newspapers is at the high end of quality journalism,” he said. “That and only that are what people are willing to pay for.”He said The Post was one of three newspapers, along with The Times and The Wall Street Journal, that are successfully transforming themselves. “They’re showing that a digital strategy is viable,” he said. “But the number of people willing to pay $10 to $12 a month for an online subscription outside those three is a rounding error.” (After the introductory rate, The Post’s digital-only access for national subscribers is $9.99 for four weeks.)Mr. Huber noted that given the winner-take-all nature of the internet, the sources of scoops are gravitating toward just a few news outlets led by The Times and The Post. Sources (and people who want to “leak”) go to a publication with the most impact; opinion makers and influencers seek the publication with the most sources and scoops — hence the “network effect” so coveted in technology circles, and one well understood by Mr. Bezos.When I asked Mr. Baron to name one thing that has driven the turnaround, his immediate answer was Mr. Bezos — and not because of his vast fortune.Advertisement“The most fundamental thing Jeff did was to change our strategy entirely,” Mr. Baron said. “We were a news organization that focused on the Washington region, so our vision was constrained. Jeff said from the start that wasn’t the right strategy. Our industry had suffered due to the internet, but the internet also brought gifts, and we should recognize that. It made distribution free, which gave us the opportunity to be a national and even international news organization, and we should recognize and take advantage of that.”But Mr. Bezos also seems to be a hands-off owner: Although Mr. Baron said they typically have a teleconference call every two weeks, Mr. Bezos hadn’t called this week, even after the Russia scoop.For many, this week’s avalanche of breaking news brought back vivid memories of Nixon and Watergate, “All the President’s Men,” and the Post reporters Woodward and Bernstein. But The Post’s current leadership is the first to admit that times have changed so vastly that such pre-internet comparisons are largely irrelevant.“Today you have to be great at everything,” Mr. Hartman said. “You have to be great at technology. You have to be great at monetization. But one thing I think we’re proving is that if you are, great journalism can be profitable.”See More »Go to Home Page »