Can Mindy Grossman, an F.O.O. (Friend of Oprah), make the weight-loss company relevant in the 21st Century by turning it into a “wellness” company?Supported byRather, it was that most 21st-century of office meetings: a hackathon with engineers and user-experience experts presenting new software ideas for “dub-dub,” as Weight Watchers is affectionately known among some digital natives. The contest was being judged “American Idol”-style by Ms. Grossman, 60, and several of her executive colleagues.A group called Salty Terror demonstrated voice-guided recipe instruction, which sounded as if Siri had entered a surgical theater. (“Three mid-sized prep bowls.” “Next.” “Strainer.” “Next.” “Knife. “Repeat.” “Knife.”) Another, named G1 after the original Android phone, proposed a menu scanner for easier tracking of SmartPoints in restaurants.Most captivating was a team addressing the practice of privately pecking points and ingredients into smartphones. “Why does it have to be so awkward to do Weight Watchers with friends?” a product designer wondered rhetorically. “What if there were an easier, more social and more interactive way?”Ms. Grossman grabbed the microphone. “Personalization,” she stage-whispered, to hearty chuckles.Sitting in a fabric-lined boardroom with the company’s senior vice president of corporate communications, Stacie Sherer, Ms. Grossman was as measured as a cup of popcorn (up to two SmartPoints) about the teenager kerfuffle.She herself was an awkward-aged 14-year-old in the Long Island town of Valley Stream when she attended her first Weight Watchers meeting, taken there by her mother, Elaine Waldman, a homemaker who struggled with health problems as well as the scale. “It was mostly women just having a conversation about food and how they felt, and I remember listening to other people and supporting other people,” Ms. Grossman said. She lost about 10 pounds on the program, felt better about herself and joined her high school’s cheerleading squad.Mindy’s father, Donald Waldman, worked nights for Candy Brand Tomatoes in St. Albans, Queens; he and her mother had tried unsuccessfully for a dozen years to have a baby on their own and hadn’t been able to afford adoption until one night his boss gave him a check earmarked for that purpose. Told this story for as long as she could remember, their daughter developed a strong sense of filial obligation. She went to Manhattanville College a year early, transferring to George Washington University as a senior, and majored in English literature and philosophy with plans to become a lawyer.“I’m moving to New York,” she announced, to horrified silence.She went from Mr. Smith’s company to then-fledgling Tommy Hilfiger, as vice president of sales and marketing, and then to the aesthetically similar Ralph Lauren as the president of its bridge line, Chaps. Later, she started Polo Jeans, which was directed at young people, and which has remained one of Mr. Lauren’s most successful and enduring brand extensions.But she was eager to be a chief executive, and after a recruiter from Barry Diller’s InterActive Corp. contacted her about heading its retail division, she sold Mr. Diller on a plan to revive the then-ossified Home Shopping Network.“All I could think about were the 6,000 people that worked for the company — their families, their future,” she said. “I was so stressed out.”For the next year, Ms. Grossman focused on bolstering company spirit. “Number one, there’s never any bad news on H.S.N.,” she reassured her employees. “Number two, even if somebody cannot afford to do business right now, I want them to think that we’re a place they could go to be a part of the community, or interface with the brands they love, because it’s the nature of the business, and it’s not about selling.”“I’m not the turnaround girl — I’m the transformation-growth person,” she said.On Thursday, Ms. Winfrey, a little out of breath after a 45-minute run, praised Ms. Grossman, one of around five candidates brought to her by a search firm. “She’s an executor and a doer, not just a sayer and a talker,” Ms. Winfrey said during a phone interview.Weight Watchers has long had to fend off other programs like Nutrisystem, Medifast and Jenny Craig. But the new millennium has also brought competition in the form of free tracking apps like MyFitnessPal and LoseIt! “I keep doing the research and I realized that our greatest competition is people thinking they can get healthy themselves,” Ms. Grossman said.“Mindy loves a challenge,” Mr. Banks said. “In any job that’s she ever had, she’s had a mind like a computer.”In the hackathon’s deliberation chamber, Ms. Grossman did not seem as enthralled with SwishPoints as her fellow judges: “I just question — really, how much utilization is that really going to get? I don’t know if you’re the mom, and you do it — the big thing you want to do is now be swishing?”The executives huddled in heated discussion for a few minutes, and then filed out so that Ms. Grossman could announce the results. Third prize went to a team that had figured out how to livestream Weight Watchers meetings to users who couldn’t show up in person. Second was G1’s menu scanner. First place was a tie between two of the teams.“We believe there’s a big opportunity if The Incredibles and Swishpoints had a baby, seriously,” Ms. Grossman said with a broad smile, and thanked out-of-towners for making the trip.“As much as we believe in technology,” she said, “having people together is also pretty fabulous.”And it was time for a beer at the happy hour — two to six SmartPoints, depending.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS