AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseCan this tax plan be saved?Predictably, Democrats, their allies and many independent economists pounced on the plan as a tax cut for the rich. Deficit hawks, including many Republicans, denounced it as recklessly driving up the federal deficit. And legislators from high-tax states, including Republicans, howled at the proposal to end the deduction for state and local taxes.Not surprisingly, for the most part President Trump has taken the approach of publicizing the benefits of his plan — mostly corporate and business tax cuts — while leaving the hard part, closing loopholes, to Congress. As Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan think tank, put it: “Tax cuts are easy. Tax reform is hard.”But this plan is just an opening salvo. I was surprised this week, in interviews with tax experts from across the political spectrum, to hear that all those issues can be resolved, if Congress is willing to take up the challenge.Critics of the plan have mostly ignored that substantial elements of it have drawn bipartisan support. Almost everyone agrees that corporate tax rates need to be cut because of global competition. Companies should not be able to stash earnings overseas tax-free. With the standard deduction doubled, many more individual taxpayers could file a simple short-form return. A lower rate for small businesses and pass-through entities, while more controversial, should promote economic growth.“The most important things for the middle class will be better economic performance and growth in wages,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, a conservative pro-growth advocacy group. “That’s a much more powerful force than any tax policy. From that perspective, this is a promising start. But it’s only a start.”Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, told me this week that he was determined to get a tax bill to the president by the end of the year.“Is that ambitious?” asked Mr. Brady. “Absolutely. President Reagan’s reform took two and a half years. We’re trying to do it in one year.” But the economy and the public are desperately in need of tax reform, he added, and “we are continuing to work on the final design of the tax reform plan that we’ll have ready after the budget is complete.”Lowering the pass-through rate to 25 percent, the analysis shows, would add another $770 billion to the deficit.And the White House has also proposed repealing the estate tax. The price tag for that change would be about $240 billion.Closing various corporate loopholes would add back about $400 billion, the Tax Policy Center estimated. That leaves a net cost of about $2.6 trillion over the 10-year period.The Trump administration has insisted that it is adamant about eliminating the state and local tax deduction, a move that would generate $1.3 trillion over those 10 years, and providing for immediate expensing of capital expenditures, which would cost about $220 billion over five years, but Republicans in Congress are already balking. So I’m ignoring those elements.The Republican budget resolution accepts a 10-year revenue shortfall of $1.5 trillion, on the theory that faster economic growth will make up the difference. That’s a debatable proposition, but for purposes of this discussion, let’s accept it.All of that leaves a 10-year gap of about $1.1 trillion between the Tax Policy Center’s projected net cost and the deficit built into the budget resolution.So where should the money come from? Here are three proposals that could draw bipartisan support:The White House plan explicitly leaves open the possibility of a new, higher bracket for the rich. Depending on how high the marginal tax rate is, it could simultaneously raise substantial revenue and help minimize the claim that the plan is tilted toward the wealthy.This seems reasonable, given that the rich benefit disproportionately from cuts to corporate tax rates, since they are overwhelmingly the owners of the companies that would get a windfall from the cuts. (They have already seen the value of their stocks rise.)The current top marginal income tax rate is 39.6 percent.Neither the Tax Policy Center nor the Tax Foundation has analyzed the impact of a new top bracket, so I have done some rough calculations.A top bracket of 44 percent for the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers — those with adjusted gross incomes of more than $2.1 million in 2014 — would generate about $300 billion over 10 years.There are only about 140,000 of these extremely high earners, but they already put in about 20 percent of the revenue that comes from the federal individual income tax.If Congress wants to take the new bracket down to the top 1 percent — those with adjusted gross incomes of more than $466,000 in 2014 — doing so would generate about $600 billion in additional revenue. (The top 1 percent provide about 40 percent of federal income tax revenue.)The large and vocal nonprofit sector would probably cheer a higher tax bracket for the ultrarich, because it would make the tax benefits of their charitable deductions more valuable. The wealthy already account for a disproportionate share of charitable giving: the top 1 percent accounted for 37 percent of deductions for charitable contributions in 2014.But raising rates for the highest earners would raise issues of fairness, since it would further penalize earned income, while leaving passive income like capital gains untouched. A higher tax bracket for the highest earners would have little impact on Mr. Trump, since he has relatively little earned income, as opposed to pass-through income and capital gains.Still, to help pay for pro-growth corporate tax cuts, “I would have no problem raising capital-gains rates or creating a new bracket for the rich, or both,” Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.The appreciation of capital assets is already taxed at an extremely favorable rate compared to labor. That’s why the rich pay such a low effective tax rate no matter what their marginal tax bracket. Various justifications for lower capital-gains rates have been proffered over the years, none of them self-evident. But even conceding the wisdom of lower capital-gains rates, why should they never be taxed at all, even as they are passed from generation to generation?The argument for taxing such gains seems even more compelling given the proposed elimination of the estate tax, which at least captures some capital gains among the wealthiest people.“To take away the backstop of the estate tax without a tax on capital gains at death is crazy,” Mr. Rosenthal said.During the campaign, Mr. Trump proposed a plan to tax capital gains in excess of $10 million at death. That would avoid shifting the burden from the very wealthy to the less affluent. Congress could even exempt family-owned farms and small businesses. (There aren’t that many valued at more than $10 million.)The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the exclusion of capital gains at death would cost the Treasury $644 billion from 2014 to 2023. How much of that could be recaptured depends on where the threshold is set (it certainly could be lower or even higher than the $10 million). Let’s assume about half, or $320 billion.The White House plan is silent on the issue. “In this instance, I’d say, ‘Let Trump be Trump,” Mr. Rosenthal said.Both approaches would raise substantial revenue, although it’s hard to calculate just how much. The Tax Foundation estimates that the corporate interest deduction would cost the Treasury $1.2 trillion over 10 years. A rough estimate for what could be saved would be $600 billion.Of course nothing about tax reform is easy. Real estate investors, Mr. Trump among them, love the interest deduction. So do banks and other lenders.The White House plan is silent on the issue.The bottom line: Potential revenue from the three suggestions above adds up to $1.22 trillion. (Extending the top bracket to the upper 1 percent would raise another $300 billion.) Voilà: the $1.1 trillion budget hole would be closed, and then some.Fifth in a series of Common Sense columns about the shape a responsible tax reform plan might take.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWelcome to the kinder, gentler Uber.The action in London is the first major public test for Mr. Khosrowshahi, the former chief executive of the online travel service Expedia, who succeeded the embattled Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick in August. While it may be premature to compare him with Mr. Kalanick after he has been in the job for only a few weeks, his tone offers a marked contrast. So far, Mr. Khosrowshahi “has been careful, tactful and humble, all quite a contrast from his predecessor,” said Mark Mahaney, the chief internet analyst at RBC Capital Markets. “He’s not confrontational.”AdvertisementNo one expects Uber’s reputation for being brash, aggressive and, at times, immature to change overnight, but Mr. Khosrowshahi’s softer approach appears to be bearing fruit. Sadiq Khan, the popular mayor of London, said this week that he welcomed Mr. Khosrowshahi’s apology and that he would encourage transport regulators to meet with him.AdvertisementUber and Mr. Khosrowshahi declined to comment.And as anxieties mount in London over the British withdrawal from the European Union, even Mr. Khosrowshahi’s reference to the city as a “great global city” was a not-so-subtle reminder that, without Uber, it wouldn’t be.“London Uber is basically staffed by white people from Goldman Sachs in their 30s,” he said. “They’re slick City people executing a business plan that originated in San Francisco. They totally drank the Travis Kool-Aid. They just saw the backlash against Uber as a natural part of disruption and couldn’t see that there might be some legitimate objections.”That’s not to say that the transport regulators’ stated objections — under the rubric that Uber isn’t “fit and proper” to hold a transport license — are entirely what the dispute is about.As Uber has pointed out, the regulators’ specific concerns, about failing to report potentially criminal acts to the police and whether its medical and background checks on drivers were adequate, could have been resolved relatively easily. The company insists that it complies with all London regulations but is open to negotiations and revisions.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Many people in London — and in the rest of Europe — view giant American technology companies, and Uber in particular, with intense suspicion and resentment. Even Mr. Khosrowshahi’s apology and conciliatory comments drew scathing retorts on Twitter. (“They’re just going to pout, lie, and try to find ways to cheat the system like they always do,” was one.)Mr. Khosrowshahi has “been wise to approach this as both a political and business issue,” Mr. Mahaney said. “As head of Expedia, Dara had to deal with many disagreements with local governments over taxes and other policies, especially San Francisco and New York City. They all got resolved, generally without any public, aggressive confrontations.”And Uber has prominent defenders in London. Britain’s minister for London, Greg Hands, criticized Mr. Khan, saying that banning Uber would “cause massive inconvenience to millions of Londoners, showing that the mayor is closed to business and innovation.”“I don’t have that much sympathy for the black cab fleet,” Mr. Knight said. “You respect their craft, and they’re a skilled group of people. But you pay through the nose. They’re nearly all white males. They gripe all the time about immigration. The only reason I’d take one is if I was in the middle of London at rush hour and someone else was paying.”In any event, banning Uber in London is unlikely to return the city to what some consider the more genteel status quo that existed before the company’s arrival. Although Uber is currently the only ride-hailing operation licensed there, its rival Lyft is eager to expand internationally and enter the London market. Lyft officials have met with transport regulators in the past year.“I’d say the genie is out of the bottle,” Mr. Mahaney said. “The regulators may be able to tilt the playing field a little, but ride-sharing is a fact of life and I’d say a benefit of life in all major cities.”Both he and Mr. Mahaney predicted that Uber’s large dose of humility would help. In the end, “to be world class, London needs ride-sharing,” Mr. Knight said. “Uber will survive, clean up its act, and Khan will declare victory.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseThere’s an old saying, “hard cases make bad law.” Perhaps a corollary should be “easy cases make good law.”After Mr. Martoma learned from Dr. Gilman that the trials had been largely a failure, SAC was able to trade on the still-confidential information, generating profits and avoiding losses totaling $275 million. Mr. Martoma earned a $9.3 million bonus for his efforts.Dr. Gilman testified against Mr. Martoma at trial. Despite the overwhelming evidence of his guilt, Mr. Martoma has never acknowledged any wrongdoing or shown any remorse. His steadfast refusal to cooperate with the government meant criminal charges were never brought against Steven A. Cohen, SAC’s founder, who remains one of the world’s richest men and who is now back in business at his new operation, Point72 Asset Management.Given the circumstances of the case, it was no surprise when Mr. Martoma was convicted in 2014 and sentenced to nine years in prison.Martoma “wasn’t a hard case,” said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School and an expert on white-collar crime. “In fact, it’s one of the easiest insider-trading cases I’ve ever seen.” While the appellate panel may have overreached in its eagerness to limit the damage from Newman, he said, the upshot is that “the odds have again swung to the prosecutors’ advantage.”Both the Newman and Martoma appeals turned on the relationship between the person who conveys inside information (the “tipper”) and the person who receives and trades on it (“the tippee”). To be guilty of insider trading, the tipper needs to personally benefit, directly or indirectly, from the disclosure, the Supreme Court has held.Until Newman, this benefit was construed quite broadly, and could easily be inferred if the tipper and tippee were relatives, friends or even acquaintances. But in Newman, the Second Circuit held prosecutors to a much higher standard, ruling that the relationship must be “a meaningfully close personal relationship that generates an exchange that is objective, consequential, and represents at least a potential gain of a pecuniary or similarly valuable nature.”That meant the traders who passed on and traded on inside information in the Newman case went free. (The fact they were business school classmates who had worked together at the same company and known each other for years wasn’t a close enough relationship, the court ruled.) Prosecutors had to dismiss the convictions and guilty pleas of seven people who’d participated in insider trading schemes, in some cases reaping millions in profit, including Michael S. Steinberg, one of Mr. Cohen’s top lieutenants.That set the stage for Mr. Martoma to argue that he, likewise, had no close personal relationship with Dr. Gilman and that the doctor didn’t reap any gain from disclosing the information.But the Martoma case proved to be a vivid illustration of a truism about inside information on Wall Street: there are few true gifts. The relationship between tippers and tippees is almost always complicated by personal ties and expectations of future benefits — monetary or emotional or both. Wall Street “operates like a big favor bank,” Mr. Coffee said.The relationship between Mr. Martoma and Mr. Gilman seems an especially poignant example. As Sheelah Kolhatkar, author of “Black Edge,” a gripping account of the Martoma case and the Cohen investigation, told me this week: “One of Dr. Gilman’s two sons committed suicide. He was estranged from the other. He was lonely.”Mr. Martoma, who had proven adept at charming older mentors throughout his career, over time insinuated himself into Dr. Gilman’s life in what investigators described as an “intellectual seduction.”Then, after receiving the inside information he wanted, Mr. Martoma dropped him. “Hi, Mat. I haven’t heard from you in a while,” Dr. Gilman wrote after several months of silence. “I just wonder how you’re faring.” Dr. Gilman never saw him again.At an emotional moment at Mr. Martoma’s trial, Dr. Gilman testified that Mr. Martoma had come to remind him of the son he’d lost to suicide. “It was so sad to see this elderly, distinguished doctor who’d pleaded guilty and lost his career, his reputation, virtually everything, hunched over on the witness stand having to reveal all this,” Ms. Kolhatkar recalled. “He was a tragic figure.”None of this drama actually figured in the Martoma decision. Robert A. Katzmann, the chief circuit judge who wrote the opinion for two of the judges on the panel (the third wrote a dissent), didn’t need to consider the nuances of the relationship and how Dr. Gilman might have benefited (or suffered) emotionally, because the two had a straightforward financial relationship: Dr. Gilman earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in consulting fees from Mr. Martoma, and so he had every reason to ingratiate himself by divulging the information.Mr. Martoma will most likely seek a rehearing by the full court and, if that fails, appeal to the Supreme Court. But the odds of his prevailing have turned drastically against him.At this juncture, his case essentially restores insider-trading law to where it was before Newman roiled the waters. Absent a much-needed — but unlikely — congressional statute that would clarify many confusing aspects of insider-trading law, that’s probably as it should be.“The problem with Newman,” Ms. Kolhatkar said, “is that it completely misunderstood the way the world actually works.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorAs part of their giant tax bill, Republicans in Congress are about to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate. Their objective is not sensible health care reform but rather insensible arithmetic that could satisfy the byzantine rules governing the Senate’s reconciliation process.The purpose of the mandate is to evenly distribute risk among healthy and unhealthy Americans on the individual insurance market so that costs are shared and no one is left out.Will killing the mandate ruin Obamacare exchanges? No, but it will transform them into an extended form of Medicaid by another name. Americans with subsidized policies will stay in the system, with help from the federal government.Unsubsidized individuals, however, will be driven out of the market, because a repeal of the mandate will cause premiums on exchange plans to skyrocket as healthy people exit. Many of these people will purchase new stripped-down, less expensive policies — courtesy of a Trump administration executive order — with the understanding that they can sign up for a more robust exchange policy at the next open enrollment period if they need full coverage in times of illness.About three-quarters of those who buy insurance on the exchanges are subsidized by the federal government to reduce premiums to a specified “affordable” percentage of their income. The loss of the mandate will not affect them. But many healthy, younger enrollees — who help to make insurance affordable by balancing the risk of sicker older people — will be driven away by higher premiums, and without the mandate, they would probably opt out — they typically didn’t want to buy insurance anyway. Unfortunately, their exit will leave a higher average cost for those who are left.Within a year or two of elimination of the mandate, the individual insurance market will resemble the failed pre-Obamacare days when pre-existing conditions and high premiums made access impossible. The difference is that the government will foot a large part of the cost through subsidies. Before the A.C.A., lower-income people who didn’t qualify for Medicaid were priced out of the individual market, but with subsidies, they can now purchase lower-cost plans. If the individual mandate is eliminated, it will be middle-income people without subsidies who lose access.The continuing high enrollment this fall supports the idea that most people still see the subsidized insurance offerings on the exchanges as a good deal. As a result, the demand side of this unusual market will stay strong for the subsidized customers.How will the insurance companies react? They will see high demand for subsidized insurance as a tempting market in spite of past and future chaos. The problem for them is that these customers are sicker and less predictable in their needs, which makes it difficult to set a price. This is precisely why the number of insurers this year has dropped so severely. But managing uncertainty is at the core of this business. Any risk is acceptable if the compensation is high enough.Many observers have been critical that only one or two Obamacare insurers offer plans in many counties. But for the remaining insurers, there is a silver lining: monopoly. Without serious competition and with the support of subsidies, insurers can set premiums high enough to cover any contingency and virtually guarantee a good profit. The high quoted premiums on the exchanges signal that insurers are anticipating these changes in the pool. The remaining insurers will not run away. In fact, I expect those who stay will report record profits next year, even without the mandate. By now all those firms with a low tolerance for risk have exited.However, the timing of a mandate repeal is central. Eliminating the individual mandate will make little difference to insurers in 2018 if the mandate expires in 2019. But Congress may decide to eliminate the individual mandate immediately. Then insurers, who priced their plans assuming continuation of the same historical enrollee pool, will lose their shirts as healthier enrollees drop out. Changing the rules halfway through the game is not something insurance company C.E.O.s. can anticipate, but it is their biggest challenge now.A surprising result of eliminating the individual mandate would be an effective expansion of a plan that many Republicans in Congress would like to cut or abolish: Medicaid. Under the evolving Obamacare policies, lower-income enrollees are heavily subsidized by the government, and the plans on the exchanges are largely offered by insurers specialized in Medicaid service to the states.Without the individual mandate, the exchanges will not die but will continue as zombies offering high-cost coverage, fed by the federal government and stumbling around the health system failing to serve their original purpose — access for all regardless of age, health status or pre-existing conditions.Yet as long as the subsidies continue, health plans will offer their policies on the exchanges with very high premiums. While this may allow access for some who otherwise would be left out, the grand purpose of the A.C.A. — to allow affordable care for all — will slip away. Is this any way to do health policy?J. B. Silvers is a professor of health care finance at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byJohn B. Anderson, a former Republican congressman from Illinois who bolted his party to run as a plain-spoken independent candidate for president in 1980, drawing an enthusiastic if transient following among liberals and college students, died on Sunday night in Washington. He was 95.His death was confirmed by his daughter Diane Anderson.The United States was struggling with a recession, a severe energy crisis and the protracted Iranian hostage crisis when Mr. Anderson gave up a safe seat in the House of Representatives to seek the Republican presidential nomination. When that try fizzled, he reintroduced himself as an independent, honest-dealing alternative to the rancorous business-as-usual politics of the major parties.For a while he had the national spotlight, a 58-year-old maverick whose white hair, horn-rimmed glasses and clearheaded presentation gave him the air of a genial professor who was not so much above the fray as he was unwilling to play by its rules.Mr. Anderson refused to pander, telling voters in Iowa that he favored President Jimmy Carter’s embargo on grain sales to the Soviet Union after it had invaded Afghanistan. He called for a gasoline tax of 50 cents per gallon — when a gallon cost $1.15 — to save energy.Early on, when all six of his rivals for the Republican nomination assured the Gun Owners of New Hampshire that they firmly opposed gun control legislation, Mr. Anderson said, “I don’t understand why.”“When in this country we license people to drive automobiles,” he added, “what is so wrong about proposing that we license guns to make sure that felons and mental incompetents don’t get ahold of them?”He was roundly booed.His backers promoted his campaign style as “the Anderson difference,” but despite it — or perhaps because of it — he never finished better than second in a Republican primary. That came in Illinois, his home state, which he had expected to win. When he did not, losing to Ronald Reagan by fewer than 12 points (Mr. Reagan was born in Illinois), he decided to run as an independent.Drawing support from moderate to liberal Republicans and liberal Democrats and finding a receptive audience on college campuses, Mr. Anderson did well in the polls at the start. At one point, upward of one-fifth of voters said they preferred him to the major party nominees, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter, the Democrat, who was seeking re-election. Mr. Anderson peaked in June, when he was the choice of 24 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll, 25 percent in a Harris/ABC poll and 18 percent in a New York Times/CBS News poll.His hopes were sustained by the volatility of the 1980 campaign, with its sudden swings of popularity. Mr. Carter’s Democratic challenger, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, led by large margins in early polls, only to see the president recover and defeat him soundly in the primaries.Mr. Reagan, the early Republican favorite, spent money lavishly, but lost to George Bush in the Iowa caucuses and trailed in national polls before a solid win in New Hampshire put him back on the road to the nomination. Mr. Anderson said he believed that the tide might turn in his favor in “the climactic phase of the campaign.”So he pushed on, calling Mr. Carter a “mean and evasive” campaigner who used a recession and high unemployment to fight inflation, and criticizing Mr. Reagan’s campaign “one-liners,” calling them “slick and simplistic.”But in a pattern familiar to independent candidates, Mr. Anderson’s support drifted as voters turned to candidates who they believed could actually win the White House. On Election Day, when Mr. Reagan won in a landslide, Mr. Anderson ended up with 6.6 percent of the popular vote.Mr. Anderson was perceived as the most liberal of the three contenders. That label probably fit on social issues like abortion, but his economic views were traditionally conservative. He preferred to think of himself as the moderate in the race — a self-description that reflected a marked political evolution.In his first three years in the House, starting in 1961, Mr. Anderson, a former prosecutor and a decorated World War II veteran, received a zero rating from the liberal group Americans for Democratic Action. Not long after entering the Capitol, he proposed a constitutional amendment declaring that “this nation devoutly recognizes the authority and law of Jesus Christ, Savior and Ruler of nations.”The measure never came to a vote, and he later apologized for it.Though his views began to moderate, he was still conservative enough in 1969 for the Republicans to elect him chairman of the House Republican Conference, the third-ranking leadership position. He held the post through 1979, though not without fighting off challenges from the right. By then, the A.D.A. had put his voting record in the mid-40s, and he had harshly criticized President Richard M. Nixon, a fellow Republican, over his handling of the Watergate scandal. His own critics called Mr. Anderson self-righteous and preachy.But he grew increasingly impatient not only with the House but also with the growing strength of the right wing of his own party.“Extremist fringe elements,” he complained in 1977, “seek to expel the rest of us from the G.O.P.” He warned, “If the purists stage their ideological coup d’état, our party will be consigned to the historical junk heap.”The right returned the compliment with a strong Republican primary campaign against him in his 1978 House race. With the help of Democratic crossover votes, Mr. Anderson won with 58 percent over the insurgent, Don Lyon, a conservative minister. But he resented the challenge, and his thoughts turned to the White House.It was always a long-shot campaign. Few elected officials endorsed him. His Republican campaign, announced in June 1979, drew little support as Mr. Bush emerged as the only viable alternative to Mr. Reagan (who wound up choosing Mr. Bush as his running mate).For his independent run, announced in April 1980, Mr. Anderson had to spend millions to get on the ballot in all 50 states as the National Unity Party candidate, leaving little cash for television advertising. (His running mate was Patrick J. Lucey, a former Democratic governor of Wisconsin.) And when Mr. Carter refused to join him in a September debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters — the president, it was said, did not want to be perceived as taking Mr. Anderson’s candidacy seriously — Mr. Anderson’s last and best chance of making an impact was snuffed out.The debate went ahead without the president, but Mr. Reagan gained more from it than Mr. Anderson did. When Mr. Anderson’s poll standing slipped below 15 percent, the league did not invite him back for an October debate, the only one between Mr. Carter and Mr. Reagan, for whom it was a turning point.But Mr. Anderson never considered dropping out.“We had operated from the very beginning with the assumption that it was a given that Jimmy Carter could not be re-elected,” Mr. Anderson told a conference at the Institute of Politics at Harvard weeks after the election. His hope, he added, was that with the collapse of the Carter campaign, he could emerge “as a rational and reasonable alternative to Ronald Reagan.”To the frequent accusation that he had been a spoiler in the race, he replied: “What’s to spoil? Spoil the chances of two men at least half the country doesn’t want?”John Bayard Anderson was born on Feb. 15, 1922, in Rockford, Ill., a son of Swedish immigrants, E. Albin Anderson and the former Mabel Edna Ring. As a boy he worked in the family’s grocery store and was the valedictorian of his class at Rockford Central High School.He earned bachelor’s and law degrees at the University of Illinois and a master of laws at Harvard. In World War II he earned four battle stars as a staff sergeant in the field artillery in Europe and later worked in the Foreign Service in Berlin and Washington, where he met Keke Machakos, a passport photographer. They married in 1953. Returning to Illinois, he was elected state’s attorney for Winnebago County in 1956.In addition to his daughter Diane, he is survived by his wife; three other daughters, Eleanora van der Wal, Karen Moree and Susan Anderson; a son, John Jr.; and 11 grandchildren.Mr. Anderson had homes in Rockford as well as in Washington, where he practiced intellectual property law, and in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he taught law for many years at Nova Southeastern University. He served as president of the World Federalist Association, which promotes international cooperation, and chairman of FairVote, a nonprofit group that favors ranked-choice voting.Mr. Anderson was the author of “Between Two Worlds: A Congressman’s Choice” (1970); “The American Economy We Need” (1984) and “A Proper Institution: Guaranteeing Televised Presidential Debates” (1988).The most enduring impact of his 1980 independent campaign came in the courts, where his victories enabled later third-party candidates like H. Ross Perot and Mr. Nader to get on the ballot. Most important was a ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1983 that threw out Ohio’s filing deadline of March 20 for independent candidates. (Mr. Anderson had not decided to run as an independent that early in 1980, but got on the ballot when a Federal District Court ordered Ohio to let him run.)Ohio defended its deadline as a way to maintain “political stability.” But the Supreme Court accepted Mr. Anderson’s argument that states could not impose substantially more onerous burdens on independent candidates than on major party nominees.Though Mr. Anderson’s candidacy had little impact on the outcome of the 1980 election, his campaign was memorable for its candor. Appearing in Des Moines with six rivals for the Republican nomination, Mr. Anderson was alone among them in saying something specific when asked if there was anything in his career he would take back if he could.“It would have been the vote that I cast in favor of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution,” he said, referring to the 1964 congressional measure that gave President Lyndon B. Johnson license to widen the war against North Vietnam.He was equally forthright in defending his call for an emergency excise tax on gasoline, unpopular though it might have been.“I did it as a security measure, to be sure,” he told the September 1980 debate audience, “because I would rather see us reduce the consumption of imported oil than have to send American boys to fight in the Persian Gulf.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementFor inspiration, maybe Mr. Trump and lawmakers in Congress should look in their own backyard.The District of Columbia, a political entity whose city council lies ideologically somewhere to the left of Bernie Sanders, has done exactly that.The capital’s financial affairs were in such disarray by the mid-1990s that they were taken over by a federal financial control board that operated until 2001. Yet in 2014 the council cut corporate and business taxes, reduced individual rates for everyone earning less than $1 million and broadened the tax base by eliminating many loopholes.AdvertisementIn the ensuing years, economic growth and tax receipts have surged, enabling the city to accelerate cuts that were being phased in. The legislation was not revenue neutral, in the sense that broadening the tax base offset the reduction in rates. It was a tax cut. But in a development that would surely warm the hearts of pro-growth Republicans, the economic lift was so strong that tax receipts increased, and last year hit a record.AdvertisementEven more remarkable, the plan drew praise from across the ideological spectrum, including that of conservative supply-side advocates like Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, which opposes all tax increases.Among the organizations lauding the effort were the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, the Tax Foundation, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, and the National Taxpayers Union.“What makes D.C. so unusual was the bipartisan support,” said Joseph Henchman, executive vice president of the Tax Foundation and an expert on state taxes.The council chairman, Phil Mendelson, who led the effort, said the capital had to reform its tax code and ease the burden on business and middle- and low-income taxpayers to stay competitive.“We now have the lowest general sales tax and lowest property taxes in the region, and the business tax is the same as Maryland,” he said. While he conceded that there is no way of knowing to what extent the tax cuts stimulated growth, he added: “We’re no longer seen as the high-tax jurisdiction. People feel good about that, which is a psychological factor that I feel is very important.”AdvertisementTax reform is never easy, and it wasn’t in the District of Columbia, either. There are no Republicans on the council, but as the Republicans have discovered, there can be sharp divisions within the same party. Among elected officials, the main opposition came from Vincent C. Gray, then the mayor, and the most liberal council members, who favored spending increases over tax cuts.“The counterweight is always to spend the money,” Mr. Mendelson told me this week. “The mayor wanted to spend it, so I had to step up. Other members were willing to stand behind me as long as I was willing to take the political heat.”The council passed the measure by a vote of 11 to 2. Opponents have fought a rear-guard action to delay putting the measure’s remaining cuts into effect, without success.To raise revenue, the plan extended the sales tax to service businesses, which swept tanning salons and fitness centers into the tax base. They mounted a spirited opposition, calling the plan a “yoga tax” and a misguided effort to tax exercise, fitness and health.“They almost succeeded in derailing it,” Mr. Henchman said. “It was really just a loophole, but every loophole has a constituency, and they can be very vocal.”What can lawmakers now trying to reform the federal tax code glean from the District of Columbia’s experience?The federal tax code is obviously far more complicated. Taxpayers in the capital, as in most states, generally report just their federal adjusted gross income. So thorny issues like mortgage interest, charitable contributions, and state and local tax deductions weren’t part of the debate.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The capital also had a balanced budget that was generating a surplus, which gave it more leeway for tax cuts.But the philosophy behind the local effort could well apply to the federal government. Steven M. Rosenthal, who served as staff director of the District of Columbia’s tax revision commission and is a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center, said the Trump administration and lawmakers should seek to “lower rates for competitiveness but tackle loopholes at the same time.”Advertisement“Lower rates mean fewer economic distortions — and the broader the base, the more we remove taxes as a driver of economic decisions,” he added. “That’s the tried-and-true theory of tax reform.”Mr. Mendelson said Republicans might need to sacrifice ideological purity in pursuit of a common goal. “The goal should be to get to 51 percent of the votes in Congress, not 100 percent support within the Republican Party,” he said. “If you don’t have unanimity in the party, you need strong majority leadership that’s willing to form a bipartisan coalition with some dissent within the party.”Mr. Henchman also stressed compromise. “Nobody got everything they wanted,” he said. “But they got enough that they felt it advanced their goals.”He also cited the “high-level leadership” provided by Mr. Mendelson — someone who can stand up to special interests and make a persuasive case, as he did, that the code could be fairer and more competitive.That’s a challenge that now falls to Mr. Trump, especially since he largely abdicated any leadership role in the failed effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.Speaking this week in Missouri, he kicked off the campaign with broad themes and few details, pledging to “dramatically simplify” the federal tax code, “eliminate special-interest loopholes” and create a “competitive tax code that creates more jobs and better wages.”Those may be platitudes, but the most important lesson from the District of Columbia may be a simple one: It can happen.An earlier version of this column misstated the budget deficit looming in Kansas before legislators passed a tax increase. It was $900 million, not $900 billion.Third in a series of Common Sense columns about the shape a responsible tax reform plan might take.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIs content still king?When AT&T announced its plan to take over Time Warner 10 months ago, Disney’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said the deal proved yet again that “content is king.”“Is the network — the platform — now most important?” asked Michael Olson, the consumer internet analyst who covers Netflix for Piper Jaffray, when we spoke last week.AdvertisementThe idea that content is king has long rested on the notion that distribution — in whatever form it takes — is a low-margin commodity, and the biggest share of profits flows to the creators of original programming, who can sell to the highest bidder.AdvertisementIn keeping with that philosophy, Disney made its biggest bets on intellectual property, acquiring Pixar ($7 billion), Marvel Entertainment ($4 billion) and Lucasfilm ($4 billion). Those bets have paid off handsomely for shareholders.But as internet streaming disrupts channels like cable and broadcast, Disney now appears to have set its sights on distribution — and a potential new revenue source.These technology giants already have huge user bases and open checkbooks. In July, Netflix said that it had achieved a larger-than-expected increase in subscribers, who now total 104 million, and that it was reaching about half of United States households.“Anyone who wants to compete directly with Netflix or the full spectrum of competitors who are getting into this space had better be ready for a long, hard fight and have very deep pockets,” said Mr. Olson at Piper Jaffray. “They have the money to spend on content, and they already have huge direct-to-consumer user bases and traffic.”Netflix got where it is today in part by licensing Disney’s popular children’s offerings and Disney- and Pixar-branded films. Neither company has disclosed what Netflix pays for those rights, but analyst estimates range from about $220 million to $300 million a year.As long as Netflix was primarily a distributor, it posed no threat to Disney, and offered a revenue source to complement Disney’s cable channels and movies. Investors cheered when the licensing deal was announced in 2012. But Netflix went from partner to competitor by spending heavily to create its own programming — especially in the coveted children’s market long dominated by Disney.AdvertisementNext year Netflix is adding a new animated series based on Dr. Seuss’s “Green Eggs and Ham,” with Ellen DeGeneres as executive producer. It also has a deal with DreamWorks Animation for 300 hours of new children’s programming.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Disney served its purpose,” Mr. Olson said. Now, Netflix “has reached a critical mass of content and users where it doesn’t really need Disney anymore.”The question remains: Does Disney need Netflix? Disney will be losing substantial licensing revenue, betting that it can build its own direct-to-consumer model, capture the full value of its programming and find a new path to revenue growth as cable channels decline.And it’s hedging its bet. For now, Disney’s Marvel and “Star Wars” programming remains on Netflix. The most common criticism I heard wasn’t that Disney was trying to create its own direct-to-consumer model, but that it had waited too long.Still, nearly everyone agreed that if anyone can pull it off, it’s Disney — and only a few others.“After Disney, the possibilities drop off pretty precipitously,” Mr. Olson said.“Disney makes a lot of amazing content, and no one can replicate it,” said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst at Cowen & Company. “But they’re putting a significant revenue stream at risk. If they succeed, they’ll capture all the revenue, but may accelerate disrupting the cable bundle. And it may not succeed. Fifteen percent of a big number is a lot better than 100 percent of nothing.”As Mr. Creutz put it in a research note, Disney’s move is putting “a very settled and successful part of the business model” at risk and “more aggressively pushes the traditional content business into terra incognita.”Mr. Olson agreed. “If anyone can do it from a content perspective, it’s probably them, because of their unique brand awareness,” he said. “But they’re coming from way behind.”AdvertisementInvestors didn’t like the uncertainty, or the prospect of a full-fledged war between Disney and Netflix. Disney stock dropped on the news and this week was trading at about $102 a share, down from $110 at the beginning of August. Netflix shares also dropped from their lofty perch, falling from $182 at the beginning of the month to $167 this week.But Kevin A. Mayer, Disney’s head of corporate strategy and business development, told me that his company’s move wasn’t a Disney vs. Netflix issue, but just the first step in a long-term growth strategy for Disney. “We can both do really well,” he said. “There’s no zero-sum game here.”Although it may seem a paradox, Mr. Mayer says he believes Disney’s move into direct-to-consumer distribution — not to mention the tech world’s rush into original programming — demonstrates that “content is everything these days.”Unlike the old world of cable and broadcast, “the barriers to entry for an over-the-top provider are pretty low,” he said, meaning a provider that distributes content directly to consumers through the internet. “All the consumer is buying is content, not the apparatus to deliver it. Netflix is only as good as its content and its brand. We’re already good at both.” (Netflix officials declined to talk to me for this column.)In short, from Disney’s perspective, Mr. Mayer said, “content is more king than ever.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAppreciationsThese were often turbulent times: captured hostages and roaring inflation under Jimmy Carter; “morning in America” for some, and budgetary austerity for others, under Ronald Reagan; and the end of the Cold War under the first President Bush. And at home, the near-collapse and gradual revival of New York City. The role of the editorial page, in Jack’s view, was to add the institutional voice of The Times to the national and local conversation on a wide range of issues, and to that end, with great humor and even greater patience, he encouraged a robust and often contentious staff of more than a dozen writers to produce lively and thoughtful pieces on their specialties for an audience of demanding readers — of which the most demanding was Jack himself.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBefore she embarked on a baking career, Reem Assil grew up in a Palestinian-Syrian household and spent a decade as a community organizer. Both of these things are evident at Reem’s California, the bright, bustling Arab bakery Ms. Assil opened in Oakland’s Fruitvale neighborhood in May.But while social justice “has always been a core component of Reem’s,” Ms. Assil said, her business was inspired by the bakeries she visited during a trip to the Middle East several years ago. “Even though there was political turmoil outside, you never would feel it inside,” she said. “In Oakland, I felt we didn’t have enough of those places where people could feel alive and safe and connected.”Ms. Assil’s other goal was to show her customers the complex world of Middle Eastern food that lies beyond hummus and falafel. While there’s hummus at Reem’s — thick and silky — the brief menu is built around man’oushe, a Lebanese flatbread that Ms. Assil bakes on a domed griddle called a saj. You can order the man’oushe (pronounced mah-noo-SHAY) carpeted with either za’atar, a spice mixture fragrant with sumac and wild thyme, or akkawi, a salty brined cheese. Both variations can be customized in classic California fashion — the za’atar man’oushe with avocado and a runny egg is a straight road to contentment.AdvertisementIndeed, Ms. Assil calls her food “Arab street food made with California love.” And there’s much to love here: Reem’s version of muhammara, the Syrian walnut-red pepper spread, makes a voluptuous partner to freshly baked pita, while the mu’ajinaat (pronounced moo-aji-NAT), a hand-held turnover stuffed with spinach and onion, is like the platonic ideal of a Hot Pocket. At breakfast, the rich, nuanced shakshuka, a thick tomato-pepper stew topped with poached eggs, provides a lusty welcome to the day. For dessert, there traditional Arabic sweets like sfoof (turmeric-orange tea cakes), mahalabiya (Egyptian milk custard), and baklava, a phyllo-encased honey-nut pastry that Ms. Assil perfumes with rosewater and orange blossom.AdvertisementEDITOR’S NOTEAn earlier version of this article lacked context about the Palestinian activist Rasmeah Odeh, the subject of a mural inside Reem’s. That has been added.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the title of a movie set near the restaurant. It is “Fruitvale Station,” not “Fruitville Station.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe bar for a chief executive of a public corporation to repudiate a United States president is extraordinarily high. Corporate leaders aren’t given their power, prestige, responsibility and nine-figure pay packages to use the corner office as their personal soapbox.With President Trump’s comments on white supremacists and other right-wing extremists ringing in the ears of America’s chief executives, that high bar appears to have been passed.Such a public schism between a president and a business leadership long considered the backbone of the Republican establishment left corporate historians at a loss for precedent. “There’s never been anything to compare to this,” said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, a dean of leadership studies at the Yale School of Management and the author of “Firing Back: How Great Leaders Rebound From Career Disasters.”AdvertisementCharles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, said he knew of no other examples, not even involving Richard Nixon at the height of the Vietnam War protests and during Watergate.AdvertisementReferring to a tweet by Mr. Trump criticizing Kenneth C. Frazier, the Merck executive who led this week’s corporate retreat from the White House councils, Mr. Sonnenfeld said, “Never in history has a president attacked and threatened the chief executive of a major U.S. corporation like that.”Now that Ken Frazier of Merck Pharma has resigned from President's Manufacturing Council,he will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!After provoking a furor with his initial failure to condemn the white supremacists behind last weekend’s violence in Charlottesville, Va., Mr. Trump might have staved off a full-scale exodus with his somewhat stilted but conciliatory comments on Monday. But then he reignited the flames at a news conference on Tuesday at which he said there was “blame on both sides,” including club-wielding members of what he called the “alt-left,” for the Charlottesville violence. The white nationalist leader Richard Spencer and the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke were quick to embrace his remarks.As pressure mounted on prominent council members like Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, Ginni Rometty of IBM and Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo, as well as other chief executives who remained silent or issued platitudes, corporate boards were hastily meeting to map strategy. “I’ve heard from 24 chief executives in the past two days,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said on Wednesday. “Boards are having ad hoc conference calls. People are very worried and concerned.”Those conversations have been far more complicated than one might expect. It’s safe to say that no chief executive wants to be identified with white supremacy, racism or domestic terrorism. At the same time the president wields enormous influence over their shareholders, employees and customers.“Chief executives don’t have the luxury of ventilating their personal political opinions, whatever they might be,” Mr. Elson said. “They shouldn’t let their personal views influence their business decisions. If they really feel strongly about something, they can always resign and then say whatever they want.”Back then, Mr. Sonnenfeld, too, praised Mr. Trump’s openness to business views as a welcome change from an Obama administration perceived as anti-business. “He’s very charming and open to new ideas,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said then of Mr. Trump.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.This week was a different story. After the Charlottesville events and Mr. Trump’s comments, “chief executives have a moral duty to use their position as a bully pulpit and to speak out,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said, adding that George Weyerhaeuser, a former chairman of the giant timber and wood products company bearing his name, had once told him, “We have a license to operate from society, and if we violate that license it can be revoked.”AdvertisementOr as Mr. Elson told me, “At some point, if identification with the administration becomes so polarizing that it impairs your ability to run the company, then you may have to do something.”Weighing the benefits of advising a president steeped in controversy versus the risks to shareholders and other constituents from potential consumer boycotts is a calculus that varies widely from company to company.That new action appears to have arrived.“The risk of consumer blowback is especially acute for companies like Under Armour, and you’ve seen this elsewhere in the retail space,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said. But he noted that speaking out against a social scourge like racism can also enhance a brand. “Taking a public stand doesn’t mean there’s a misalignment with shareholder interests,” he said. “It can be the right thing to do. Howard Schultz has done this very effectively at Starbucks.”On Monday, Mr. Schultz publicly criticized the president’s response to the Charlottesville events, and on Wednesday he spoke at an emotional companywide meeting. “I come to you as an American, as a Jew, as a parent, as a grandparent, as an almost 40-year partner of a company I love so dearly,” he said. “I come to you with profound, profound concern about the lack of character, morality, humanity and what this might mean for young children and young generations.”In such circumstances, collective action by business leaders is often the most effective course, as members of the president’s advisory councils appear to have decided this week. That way no one company bears the brunt of the president’s wrath.AdvertisementAfter Mr. Trump’s comments about Charlottesville, Mr. Sonnenfeld has been among those calling for collective opposition. “Fomenting racial unrest is not in the nation’s interest and it’s not in businesses’ interest,” he said. “Divide and conquer has always been Trump’s strategy, and somehow it has worked until now. The way to take a bully down is through collective action.”The Common Sense column on Thursday, about the calculus of chief executives in deciding whether to take on the president, referred incompletely to President Trump’s comments on Tuesday about the instigators of last weekend’s violence in Charlottesville, Va. He said there was “blame on both sides,” including club-wielding members of what he called the “alt-left”; he did not say that group was solely responsible.See More »Go to Home Page »