AdvertisementSenate Republicans enthusiastically supported the nomination of Mr. Sessions, a longtime friend and colleague from his two decades as a Republican senator from Alabama. Democrats on the committee, facing a man many of them had served and supped with, tempered their push on Mr. Sessions’s troublesome history on civil rights, and he seemed to escape their questioning relatively unscathed.Mr. Sessions should expect no such senatorial courtesy when he appears at a hearing of the Intelligence Committee on Tuesday. Democrats believe that Mr. Sessions repaid their earlier hospitality by lying to them — and the Senate — about his contacts with Russian officials, and they are now determined to extract clear answers.“Jeff Sessions has already demonstrated a willingness to mislead the Congress,” said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and a member of the intelligence panel. “There are a lot of important issues to get into.”AdvertisementHow the Senate should treat one of its own is always complicated. While they may often disagree on fundamental matters, senators spend time together on the floor, in the gym and at countless hearings, and they often develop amiable and respectful relationships over the many years they coexist. Being a member of the club is usually thought to entitle a senator to a degree of deference when it comes to confirmation for a high-level administration post or an appearance before the Senate in one capacity or another. Consider that Hillary Clinton was confirmed for secretary of state in 2009 on a vote of 94-2.Advertisement“If an attorney general is asked to do something that’s plainly unlawful,” he said, “that person would have to resign ultimately before agreeing to execute a policy that the attorney general believes would be unlawful or unconstitutional.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Sessions said he was unaware of such activities. Unprompted, he added that though he was considered a Trump campaign surrogate, he had no communications with the Russians. As it later turned out, he had met at least twice with the Russian ambassador — meetings he said were in his capacity as senator.Advertisement“Recommending Director Comey’s firing would seem to be a violation of his recusal, and Attorney General Sessions needs to answer for that,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said Monday.While Mr. Sessions will face aggressive questioning from his former Democratic peers — and perhaps some Republican panel members — he is not without weapons of his own.For one thing, he is a veteran of decades of taking and giving congressional testimony, which gives him a high level of expertise on how to dodge and duck. He also has close ties to Republicans on the committee .More contentious moments could come if he invokes executive privilege about conversations with the president or claims that information is classified to prevent it from being discussed in public session.Mr. Wyden said Democrats would have little patience for such tactics. “When there are legitimate questions on both sides of the aisle, you can’t say, ‘I don’t feel like talking,’” he said.This may be the toughest congressional crowd Mr. Sessions has faced since he was rejected for the federal bench by the Judiciary Committee in 1986. Mr. Sessions will be returning to the familiarity of a Senate hearing room, but it may not be the warmest of welcomes.See More »Go to Home Page »