AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseThere’s an old saying, “hard cases make bad law.” Perhaps a corollary should be “easy cases make good law.”After Mr. Martoma learned from Dr. Gilman that the trials had been largely a failure, SAC was able to trade on the still-confidential information, generating profits and avoiding losses totaling $275 million. Mr. Martoma earned a $9.3 million bonus for his efforts.Dr. Gilman testified against Mr. Martoma at trial. Despite the overwhelming evidence of his guilt, Mr. Martoma has never acknowledged any wrongdoing or shown any remorse. His steadfast refusal to cooperate with the government meant criminal charges were never brought against Steven A. Cohen, SAC’s founder, who remains one of the world’s richest men and who is now back in business at his new operation, Point72 Asset Management.Given the circumstances of the case, it was no surprise when Mr. Martoma was convicted in 2014 and sentenced to nine years in prison.Martoma “wasn’t a hard case,” said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School and an expert on white-collar crime. “In fact, it’s one of the easiest insider-trading cases I’ve ever seen.” While the appellate panel may have overreached in its eagerness to limit the damage from Newman, he said, the upshot is that “the odds have again swung to the prosecutors’ advantage.”Both the Newman and Martoma appeals turned on the relationship between the person who conveys inside information (the “tipper”) and the person who receives and trades on it (“the tippee”). To be guilty of insider trading, the tipper needs to personally benefit, directly or indirectly, from the disclosure, the Supreme Court has held.Until Newman, this benefit was construed quite broadly, and could easily be inferred if the tipper and tippee were relatives, friends or even acquaintances. But in Newman, the Second Circuit held prosecutors to a much higher standard, ruling that the relationship must be “a meaningfully close personal relationship that generates an exchange that is objective, consequential, and represents at least a potential gain of a pecuniary or similarly valuable nature.”That meant the traders who passed on and traded on inside information in the Newman case went free. (The fact they were business school classmates who had worked together at the same company and known each other for years wasn’t a close enough relationship, the court ruled.) Prosecutors had to dismiss the convictions and guilty pleas of seven people who’d participated in insider trading schemes, in some cases reaping millions in profit, including Michael S. Steinberg, one of Mr. Cohen’s top lieutenants.That set the stage for Mr. Martoma to argue that he, likewise, had no close personal relationship with Dr. Gilman and that the doctor didn’t reap any gain from disclosing the information.But the Martoma case proved to be a vivid illustration of a truism about inside information on Wall Street: there are few true gifts. The relationship between tippers and tippees is almost always complicated by personal ties and expectations of future benefits — monetary or emotional or both. Wall Street “operates like a big favor bank,” Mr. Coffee said.The relationship between Mr. Martoma and Mr. Gilman seems an especially poignant example. As Sheelah Kolhatkar, author of “Black Edge,” a gripping account of the Martoma case and the Cohen investigation, told me this week: “One of Dr. Gilman’s two sons committed suicide. He was estranged from the other. He was lonely.”Mr. Martoma, who had proven adept at charming older mentors throughout his career, over time insinuated himself into Dr. Gilman’s life in what investigators described as an “intellectual seduction.”Then, after receiving the inside information he wanted, Mr. Martoma dropped him. “Hi, Mat. I haven’t heard from you in a while,” Dr. Gilman wrote after several months of silence. “I just wonder how you’re faring.” Dr. Gilman never saw him again.At an emotional moment at Mr. Martoma’s trial, Dr. Gilman testified that Mr. Martoma had come to remind him of the son he’d lost to suicide. “It was so sad to see this elderly, distinguished doctor who’d pleaded guilty and lost his career, his reputation, virtually everything, hunched over on the witness stand having to reveal all this,” Ms. Kolhatkar recalled. “He was a tragic figure.”None of this drama actually figured in the Martoma decision. Robert A. Katzmann, the chief circuit judge who wrote the opinion for two of the judges on the panel (the third wrote a dissent), didn’t need to consider the nuances of the relationship and how Dr. Gilman might have benefited (or suffered) emotionally, because the two had a straightforward financial relationship: Dr. Gilman earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in consulting fees from Mr. Martoma, and so he had every reason to ingratiate himself by divulging the information.Mr. Martoma will most likely seek a rehearing by the full court and, if that fails, appeal to the Supreme Court. But the odds of his prevailing have turned drastically against him.At this juncture, his case essentially restores insider-trading law to where it was before Newman roiled the waters. Absent a much-needed — but unlikely — congressional statute that would clarify many confusing aspects of insider-trading law, that’s probably as it should be.“The problem with Newman,” Ms. Kolhatkar said, “is that it completely misunderstood the way the world actually works.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS