AdvertisementBut who wants to wait? Less than 24 hours after the first round was completed, everyone with a keyboard and an opinion was already grading the picks, sometimes pretty harshly.AdvertisementAdvertisementOn the other hand ...There was dismay that the Bears had sent picks to the San Francisco 49ers just to move up one notch in the draft. There was puzzlement over why the team had just paid Mike Glennon a lot of money to be its quarterback. There was concern over Trubisky’s brief career — just one full season — as a starter in college.There was one exception. Dieter Kurtenbach of Fox rated the pick an A-minus. Combined with the less positive grades, the G.P.A. is 1.45. Now Trubisky has to prove almost everyone wrong.Now here was a pick everyone could get behind. Four A-pluses and two A’s for the choice of the defensive lineman from Stanford. Average: 4.20, the highest of the round. “It’s an easy pick and the right one,” Fox said.Several graders gave bonus points to the 49ers for fleecing the Bears out of those extra picks.Hoffman in The Times pointed out: “He will likely be asked to play tackle in the N.F.L., which may require adding some bulk to his athletic frame.”Sometimes the consensus is good. Sometimes it’s bad. Sometimes there is no consensus.Most graders felt that Fournette of L.S.U. was the best running back available, and maybe the best player. Hoffman wrote, “He is a throwback to the power runners of yesteryear.”AdvertisementBut do you really take an old-school running back this high? And is any Jags running back going to succeed with the team’s poor offensive line?Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The grades for the pick ranged from A-minus to D, with an average of 2.72.The wide receiver from Western Michigan was greeted with a respectful, if not gushing, thumbs up. “The most pro-ready receiver in this class,” Sports Illustrated said. But some felt the Tennessee Titans had more pressing needs. Grade average: 2.90.The biggest cheers of the rest of the first round went to these four selections:Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGo to Home Page »AdvertisementAVONDALE, La. — On April 19, 2016, Andy Pazder was sipping a cup of coffee, reading the sports page and soaking in the ocean view just a few miles from PGA Tour headquarters in Florida when the idea struck him.He wanted to shake up the format of the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, a tour staple since 1938. In that moment of inspiration, Pazder, the tour’s chief tournaments and competitions officer, thought about switching the Classic from a traditional stroke-play event to a two-man team event.He fired off a text at 6:12 a.m. explaining his idea to Jay Monahan, who in November would be promoted to tour commissioner. Then he looked up the website of the title sponsor, Zurich Insurance Group, which listed teamwork among the company’s core values.“It was like a gift,” Pazder said.Pazder’s idea required the approval of the title sponsor and of the tour’s board of directors, and it received universal support. During the initial discussion with the tour’s 16-member Player Advisory Council, Pazder said, “there were guys looking to pair up on the spot.”AdvertisementWith the new format, the Zurich Classic seems to have been jolted by enthusiasm.Six of the top 10 players in the rankings and 13 of the top 25 signed up to play this week. During the post-Masters hangover the past two weeks, none of the players then in the top 15 competed in the RBC Heritage, and only one played in the Texas Open.AdvertisementThe Zurich Classic will feature 80 two-man teams, with those posting the top 35 cumulative scores (and ties) playing through the weekend. Alternate-shot play will be used in the first and third rounds, and best-ball in the second and fourth, with only the lowest score posted by a team member on each hole applied to the cumulative total. The closest the tour has previously come to using a foursome format in an official event was at the 1934 Pinehurst Pro-Pro held at Pinehurst’s No. 2.Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Each player on the winning team will get credit for a victory for the first time since Vance Heafner and Mike Holland combined to win the Walt Disney World National Team Championship in 1981. The winning team will be awarded a two-year tour exemption, 400 FedEx Cup points and invitations to the Players Championship next month, the P.G.A. Championship in August and the Tournament of Champions in January. But the winning tandem will not earn Masters berths or any ranking points.“We have said for some time that golf needs to modernize, and introducing innovative new formats is a major part of achieving that aim,” Pelley said in a statement this year. “We are in the entertainment content business with golf as our platform, and GolfSixes is the perfect illustration of that.”Team golf is not a novel concept. Among other events, the biennial Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup competitions use team play, as does the PGA Tour Champions Legends of Golf, which was held for the 39th time last week. All told, the tour has held 61 previous official team events, using various formats.The tour also recognizes two nontraditional events, the World Golf Championships match-play tournament and the Barracuda Championship, which uses a modified Stableford format, allocating points based on the number of strokes taken at each hole, with the goal of achieving the highest overall score.Should there be more breaks with tradition? It depends whom you ask. Jordan Spieth campaigned for a couple of more breaks from the monotony of 72-hole stroke play, while Justin Rose supported the philosophy of “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”Advertisement“I’ve always believed that 72-hole stroke play is the purest form of the game, and that’s how you often get the best champion and the truest winner,” Rose said. “That should be protected, I think, for the most part.“There were gaps on the European Tour schedule where there were opportunities to do something different and strengthen weaker tournaments by creating more fun and excitement around them. I think they’ve done a great job of identifying those tournaments. But they’re not messing with the strong tournaments on the European Tour.”This week, Spieth will play with his fellow Texan Ryan Palmer after losing a golf bet in November with Palmer’s caddie, James Edmondson, a former college golfer. There also are pairings of brothers (Brooks and Chase Koepka), Ryder Cup teammates (Rose and Henrik Stenson) and college teammates (the local favorites John Peterson and Andrew Loupe from Louisiana State, Georgia’s Harris English and Hudson Swafford and Georgia Tech’s Ollie Schniederjans and Richy Werenski, to name a few). The highest-profile team is Jason Day and Rickie Fowler.For some, securing a partner has been akin to finding a prom date. Asked to explain in up to three words why he had chosen Luke Donald as his partner, Jamie Lovemark counted on his hand while saying, “Des-per-ation.”Bubba Watson, who is playing with J. B. Holmes, said: “It really doesn’t matter how they partner up. They’re going to be buddies for a couple days, and you’re going to see a lot of smiles, a lot of laughing and a lot of enjoyment of the game of golf.”The NBC golf analyst Peter Jacobsen played on two Ryder Cup teams for the United States and was Arnold Palmer’s partner as host of the Fred Meyer Challenge, an unofficial team event held from 1986 to 2002. Jacobsen described the team format as twice the pleasure, but also twice the pain.“It’s so uplifting when you make a birdie for your partner,” he said, “but also agonizing when you miss a putt that costs you and your partner a hole.”The new team format brings a different strategy and intrigue to the decision-making process, which explains why so many players are talking about the importance of team chemistry and complementing each other’s game. That could be either a blessing or a burden for the Koepkas.“We could kill each other on the second hole,” Brooks Koepka said, “or it could be awesome.”An earlier version of the headline with this article misstated part of the name of this week’s PGA Tour event. It is the Zurich Classic, not the Zurich Open.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported by“There is one thing about this case that should be made crystal-clear at the outset,” the suit maintains. “The violence in Charlottesville was no accident.”The nine named plaintiffs — students, clergy members and local residents who say they were hurt in Charlottesville — have accused the event’s leaders of plotting to deprive them of their civil rights by encouraging their followers to arm themselves and partake in violence. (Heather Heyer’s family is not among the plaintiffs.)The defendants — an array of neo-Nazis, white identitarians and old-line pro-Confederates — have ridiculed the charges as an act of “lawfare” maliciously intended to silence them and destroy them financially.“The goal here is to break us and keep us from taking to the streets,” said Jeff Schoep, the leader of the National Socialist Movement. “That should concern all Americans, no matter where you stand on the political spectrum.”As the case moves forward, it is likely to explore the limits of the First Amendment’s broad free-speech provisions and the principle that incitements to violence are not protected. Discovery in the case may also expose the links between the far-right groups and their often opaque sources of financing.“I thought you could bring a suit under that same strategy,” Ms. Kaplan said, “against the groups in Charlottesville.”Most of the defendants are being represented by two less prominent lawyers: James Kolenich, who is based in Cincinnati, and Elmer Woodard, who works in the Virginia countryside about two hours south of Charlottesville.Before the current case, Mr. Kolenich had never represented a member of the alt-right, a far-right fringe movement that embraces white nationalism and is often anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic and anti-women.In order to prove that a conspiracy existed, the plaintiffs’ lawyers will have to show that the leaders of the rally worked together in planning and encouraging racially motivated violence. Under the law, if a conspiracy is eventually established, all of its participants can be held accountable for the actions of its separate members.Ms. Kaplan called those leaked communications “a lawyer’s gift,” and she used them in drafting her complaint. They seemed to show a Discord channel for the rally filled with calls for violence.“I’m ready to crack skulls,” one person wrote. Others said they planned to go to Charlottesville with wrenches, pipes and wooden sticks. One man claimed he was going with a cache of rifles that “will shoot clean through a crowd at least four deep.” There were also plans to shuttle people to the rally grounds in what was called a “Hate Van.”One of the defendants, Michael Peinovich, the co-host of a podcast called “The Daily Shoah,” downplayed the Discord messages as “idle chitchat” in his motion to dismiss. “Edgy humor and memes are part of Internet subculture,” Mr. Peinovich wrote, “and while some may not understand them, and some may find them offensive, the sharing of such jokes and memes cannot credibly be seen as evidence of a conspiracy to commit violence.”Another defendant, Richard B. Spencer, one of the country’s most prominent white supremacists, wrote in his dismissal motion that “harsh and bold words, as well as scuffles, are simply a reality of political protests.”Mr. Spencer, who is representing himself after several lawyers refused to take him as client, went on to say: “Free societies, not only in the United States, but around the world, accept this as a cost of free assembly and maintaining a vibrant political culture.”The chief planner of the Charlottesville event, Jason Kessler, wrote in an email this month that even though he was initially concerned about the lawsuit, he now considers it an opportunity to “go on offense.” Mr. Kessler said he plans to use the case to attack the “hoax narrative” that the right-wing marchers were responsible for the violence.“After all the lies about the event are laid out before the public and they realize how badly some very powerful people wanted to shut down our free speech rally,” he wrote, “I think the public will be hungrier than ever to hear what we actually went there to say.”In a different political climate, Mr. Mehlhorn said, the Justice Department’s civil rights division might have investigated and sued the planners of the Charlottesville protest.But, he added, “These days, we do not expect the Justice Department or government lawyers to pursue any of these actions.”Some experts on far-right extremism question whether the lawsuit will reveal anything beyond what is already known about the far-right groups, that they are hardly rich and tend to crowdsource what money they get.Professor Rosenthal said that rather than ruin the far-right groups, the lawsuit may just push them off the streets and back on to the internet, where they existed quietly for years.“Because the world is cyber,” he said, “it’s tough to put people entirely out of business.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS