B. 1974If Kimbo Slice had been born a few years earlier, he would have been just another knockaround guy, but the technological moment allowed him to become something new: a viral sports star. Bypassing the traditional stages of craft apprenticeship and the institutional middlemen who control the development of athletic talent, he used online video to take his fearsome persona directly to the public. He was a cartoon of aggression, nine parts Mr. T to one part Mike Tyson, with a comic-book character’s massive chest and steroidal ziggurat of shoulder and neck muscle, a refulgent Old Testament beard and dialogue consisting of mighty gold-toothed roars and tag lines on the order of “game over.” If his heart had not given out at age 42, he would have found a lasting home in professional wrestling and Hollywood, where the violence is pure mime.Before Kevin Ferguson became Kimbo Slice — Kimbo was an old nickname; Slice derived from a gruesome cut he inflicted on Big D — he was a star linebacker at Miami Palmetto Senior High School and, after college football didn’t work out, drifted into work as a bouncer. While minding the door of a strip club one night, he ran into Mike (Icey) Imber, a high school friend who had become an entrepreneur in the growing online porn business. They hit upon the idea of matching Kimbo against local tough guys who had backers willing to bet on informal scraps. “The world we were in, it was easier to go for immediate satisfaction,” Imber says. “As a regular boxer, you have to start from the bottom, and it can take years to get up to 10 grand, if you ever do. This way, we ask around, find a badass in Liberty City or South Miami, put up the money, it’s on.”Imber uploaded the video of the fight with Big D to one of his porn sites, and it later blew up on YouTube. Other bouts followed in parking lots and driveways, with Kimbo taking on Afropuff, Bic Mac, Dreads, the Bouncer, Adryan. Drawn by the bigger money available in more legitimate fighting circles, he started training in Mixed Martial Arts, making his debut in the cage in 2007. Having become a headline attraction while still an M.M.A. novice, Kimbo soon moved on to six-figure paydays. He appeared on reality TV (“The Ulimate Fighter”) and in action movies (“Blood and Bone,” “The Scorpion King 3”) and played a prison lout named Bludge in Nickelodeon’s “Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh.” Mike Tyson, Shaquille O’Neal and various rappers professed admiration. Kimbo’s celebrity and money kept multiplying, and eventually he barely had to do any real fighting.Every once in a while, though, Kimbo ran into a competent opponent. The YouTube archive that constitutes his truest legacy offers reminders that you skip apprenticeship at your peril. In one much-viewed 10-minute street fight, Kimbo and a Boston cop named Sean Gannon, both utterly exhausted, lean on each other like mating lizards until Gannon finally finishes Kimbo with dreamy-slow clubbing blows.Kimbo’s best-known M.M.A. loss came at the hands of Seth Petruzelli, a last-minute substitute who looked across at Kimbo just before the opening bell and found little to worry about. “Anyone I see who’s a musclehead, lifts a lot of weights, I think this guy’s not going to last 30 seconds, not going to have any moves, sloppy technique,” says Petruzelli — at best a journeyman, but one who had been training in martial arts since he was 7. Seeing Kimbo’s beard sticking up when he charged in, a sign that his chin was not properly tucked, Petruzelli responded with practiced reflex, nailing the exposed chin with a concise right and then raining blows on Kimbo as he lay stunned on the canvas. The bout lasted 14 seconds.Exploiting the freer access to a mass public made possible by digital technology, Kimbo Slice was one of the many D.I.Y. democratizers who have challenged professional experts’ control of the apparatus of celebrity. He was no Achilles; rather, he stands for all those fleetingly noted or entirely nameless Trojan warriors slain in droves by the godlike hero in his battle rages. For every genuine nonpareil there’s an army of guys like Kimbo who do what they can with what they’ve got, angling to catch a break from the fates.Carlo Rotella is the director of American studies at Boston College and the author, most recently, of “Playing in Time: Essays, Profiles and Other True Stories.”B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1962B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 1924B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1950B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1965B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1947B. 1952B. 1929Advertisement