B. 1950But as it turned out, almost every transcendent moment across her four-decade career would be somehow shadowed, asterisk-affixed. She was criticized as an Aretha Franklin sound-alike who wasn’t Aretha Franklin. Or, she was already passé, a soul singer when the genre was being eclipsed by disco. Or, she was cashing in on her father’s legacy, still just the “daughter of.” And so her impressive early streak — three Grammys, six consecutive gold or platinum albums and the riches they brought in — ended up leading her right back to drugs, this time the L.A. cocaine culture. “It was like a damn dip for crackers,” she wrote in her memoir “Angel on My Shoulder.” By the time she escaped in the early ’80s, her years as “the base queen,” as she was known, had cost her not one but two recording contracts, her first marriage and almost her voice and son, who fell into a pool while she was on a binge and was rescued by a couple who worked for her. In her memoirs she claimed to have narrowly escaped death herself at least half a dozen times before she was 35.From that point, she stayed clean, but sobriety didn’t make her more risk-averse, at least in terms of her career. In 1991 she embarked on “Unforgettable ... With Love,” an album of songs her father had made famous, mostly in the 1940s and ’50s, with lush, period string and horn arrangements. Anchored by the “duet from the beyond” with him on the title track (he died in 1965), the very uncontemporary album was a way of both paying tribute to him and exorcising his ghost, and a surprise runaway success besides, eventually going seven-times-platinum and sweeping the Grammy Awards. But as had become customary for Cole, a backlash soon followed — how could this collection of ancient songs be best album in the year of Nirvana and N.W.A.? (Though those songs were no more ancient then than many still-ubiquitous Beatles, Dylan and Stones tracks are today.) Partly because of “Unforgettable ... With Love,” the Grammy voting rules were changed, essentially leading to the creation of a Grammy electoral college that reduced the influence of older voters. A particularly stinging rebuke, though, may have been a “Saturday Night Live” skit titled “Unforgivable,” in which Cole (Ellen Cleghorne) sings further spectral duets with the likes of Judy Garland (Mike Myers) and Mama Cass (Chris Farley).Cole’s passing, announced on New Year’s Day, was just the beginning of a cascade of musical loss (even in death she was somewhat overshadowed), and yet as one giant after another departed, hers was still the music I craved most. As I scanned the titles in my collection, I was reminded how, whether she was singing R&B, pop, jazz or standards, she left it all in the grooves: There was the joy bomb of “This Will Be”; the Bowie/“Fame”-like groove of “Sophisticated Lady,” only with sharper jabs and better footwork; the scatting whoosh of “Mr. Melody” and the sustained elegance of “The Very Thought of You.” A sassy hit cover of Bruce Springsteen’s “Pink Cadillac.”But the album I reached for first was “Dangerous,” an obscure 1985 release and her first after she emerged from rehab. Reviewing the record for a local paper at the time, I youngly but not insincerely claimed that Cole was the best singer in pop music. “That’s a brave call,” said the editor, but he wasn’t buying it: 1985 was the year of Whitney rising and a period of reascendance for Aretha, Chaka, Patti, Tina. (The review never ran.) Listening to the album more than 30 years later, I could hear how, well, forgettable the tracks were, unworthy of the worst Brat Pack soundtrack. Yet I was still struck by how Cole could be a vocal shoehorn, able to slide meaningful phrases into even this synthy muck. She had to know the material was beneath her, yet she stared it down the way she stared down addiction, or everyone who said she was nothing more than a knockoff. Maybe I was on to something way back then. Only now there was no asterisk in sight.Rob Hoerburger is the copy chief of the magazine.B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1962B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 1924B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1974B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1965B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1947B. 1952B. 1929Advertisement