AdvertisementWith an increased focus on the dangers of football, one Michigan high school decided to focus on the safety of the players on its outmanned varsity football team by canceling the final three games of its season this week.The school, Caro High School, took this step Wednesday after its football roster was decimated by injuries, including several concussions, and four players quit in two weeks. After a 53-0 loss to rival North Branch last Friday, the coach went to school administrators and voiced his concerns about the players’ safety. And after two-thirds of the players voted in favor this week, Mike Joslyn, the Caro schools superintendent, announced the decision.“It’s a difficult decision because our players were out there battling hard, but we’re an educational institution, and with our students, safety comes first,” Joslyn said in a telephone interview Friday. “These kids have long lives ahead of them, and we need to keep the brains in their heads intact.”AdvertisementJoslyn said Caro’s roster was so depleted that eight sophomores had been called up from the junior varsity. Because so many freshmen had been moved up to the junior varsity, the freshman season had already been canceled. Todd Topham, the varsity coach, then began to worry that his players would be so overmatched by older players on opposing teams that the games could become more dangerous for them.AdvertisementCaro, with an enrollment of 524 students, plays in the Class B Tri-Valley Conference East and had gone 4-29 in the past four seasons. It was 1-5 this season.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Joslyn, who played football at Caro High School and in college, said the reaction from the community was mixed.“I would say the response has been about 50-50,” Joslyn said. “Half have thanked us for making a courageous decision. The other people say you don’t ever quit, that kids are soft these days and need to get out there and battle. I understand all of that, but our kids were out there battling. We made the best decision we could.”Joslyn and Topham continue to have high hopes for the program, Joslyn said, especially because the sophomore class gained varsity experience this year. They expect to field a full varsity team next season.Still, Joslyn said that while he thought the dangers of football were sensationalized and not different from any other contact sport, he advocated more thought being put into player development. His son, he said, plays youth football.“If you look around, you see 6- and 7-year-olds playing full-pad football,” he said. “We should be asking if kids are playing these sports too early, before their brains are really developed.”Go to Home Page »