B. 1947Crystal was born Jackie Diamond, a well-to-do girl from Westchester. That life didn’t suit her. She was made for the East Village, and she found her way there as soon as she could. Back then, in the late ’60s, the neighborhood was a world removed from “Mad Men” New York. It was more of a downtown commune where apartments were passed around like spliffs. It was the kind of place where you could knock on a neighbor’s door and ask to use her bathtub. Or maybe only Crystal did that.While working at a short-lived psychedelic newspaper, The East Village Other, Diamond was rechristened Coca Crystal. She took the name not because she particularly liked cocaine — she much preferred pot — but because she liked the alliteration, the feel of it, the playful mysticism the name implied.She started “If I Can’t Dance” in 1977. The show resembled a daffy dinner party hosted by your coolest aunt, the one who let you sip a little wine when the grown-ups weren’t looking. Though she interviewed the day’s icons — people like Cesar Chavez and Philip Glass — her reportorial bent was reliably off-kilter; she loved asking her guests what was in their refrigerators. Debbie Harry of Blondie looked supremely stoned as she described the varieties of grape juice in hers.Incredibly, the show ran until 1995. Later episodes have her in full, unreconstructed hippie garb — scraggly hair, chunky sunglasses, elaborately patterned vest — railing against Newt Gingrich and the Republicans (“... eye of Newt and tail of Quayle ...”). It finally went off the air when public-access administrators tried to move her to the ungodly hour of 11 a.m. on Friday. Crystal refused, read a TV bureaucrat’s phone number on the air (with some curse words thrown in) and retired her show for good.In a sense, Crystal saw where American culture was going. Her show predicted the sensibility of the internet — nonlinear, surreal, personal, casual, satirical yet still passionately earnest. But she didn’t divulge everything to her audience. Crystal’s viewers knew her as the ringmaster of a loopy circus, but she spent much of her time offscreen caring for Gustav Che Finkelstein, a nephew of hers who became her son. She adopted Gus, who was severely handicapped, when he was a toddler in the 1970s and remade her life around him. She even left Manhattan to move upstate so Gus would have more room.Throughout his childhood, she drove into the city every Wednesday night, Gus alongside her, to record the show. Her friends and co-stars would take turns sitting with Gus in the audience while she was on air. Crystal always referred to Gus as her executive producer. And after the show wrapped each week, around midnight, she would thank her misfit crew for coming out for another taping. Then she and Gus would get back in the car and head north, just the two of them, for the long ride home.Sam Dolnick is an associate masthead editor at The New York Times.B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1962B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 1924B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1950B. 1974B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1965B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1952B. 1929Advertisement