B. 1924And in scattering some 900 million so-called Chick tracts all over the world — his faithful readers were advised to tuck them under windshield wipers, into clothes pockets at department stores, even into the rental shoes at bowling alleys — Chick built a multimillion-dollar publishing empire on works that sold for less than 20 cents apiece.Chick knew the precise moment when he made the transition from foulmouthed World War II veteran, a would-be actor who doodled on the side, to true believer. It was a Sunday in 1948, and his new in-laws insisted that he listen to “The Old Fashioned Revival Hour” on the radio. The host quoted a line from the Book of Isaiah — “Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow” — and Chick fell to his knees.After a decade of struggling to combine his artistic talent with his burning faith, Chick struck upon an idea while giving a Gospel lesson to a group of inmates that incorporated a flip chart with his own illustrations. Eventually that same artwork became his most famous tract, published in 1964: “This Was Your Life!” In it, a man holding a drink drops dead, and an angel whisks him to a celestial drive-in theater, where scenes from his past play before him: that time he told a dirty story, ogled a young woman (“ummm NICE!”), wondered about the score of a ballgame while in church. His sins are tallied, and his name is not found in the Book of Life; he is damned. But an alternate ending is on offer: Embrace Jesus and be rewarded with joyous eternity. “This Was Your Life!” is said to have been published more than 50 million times, in Zulu, Tagalog and more than a hundred other languages.By the 1980s, new works by Chick were appearing every couple of months. They are classic forms of effective, quick-strike storytelling, every illustrated panel propelling the reader to the next, as dramatic tension builds: Just how far will the author go in rendering the wrath and mercy of God? In “Gun Slinger,” an Old West killer for hire goes to heaven after turning to Christ just before he’s hanged, while the marshal who captured him goes to hell for never having done the same. In “Lisa,” a man who has been molesting his young daughter is confronted by the family physician, who — rather than call the police — invites the predator to pray for repentance. All is forgiven!Chick’s widely parodied works were intolerant, paranoid, Satan-obsessed. “Angels?” includes a musical agent named Lew Siffer who says he controls billions of souls through rock ’n’ roll: “In the ’50s and ’60s I started gradually, introducing my new beat into some of the crooners . . . at first it was nice and soft. Then I gave them Elvis and the Beatles, etc.” Dan Raeburn, who published a zine, The Imp, about underground comics, characterizes Chick’s work as “the dark heart of American fundamentalism.”But Chick’s “soul-winning tracts,” as they were called, also earned him recognition as a kind of underground-comics patriarch. Raeburn once devoted an entire issue of The Imp to Chick. Kurt Kuersteiner, author of “The Unofficial Guide to the Art of Jack T. Chick,” describes his cartoons as “an inspiration to countless artists who otherwise condemned his religious and conservative views.”Yet those views appalled some religious bodies, like the Christian Booksellers Association and the Catholic Church, which took issue with Chick’s frequent anti-Catholic depictions, including the claim, laid out in “The Awful Truth,” that the Jesuits were behind the assassination of Lincoln. That conviction may underpin why, in late middle age, he came to suspect that his own life might be in danger. In the end, the creator behind religious tracts that were ubiquitous removed himself from public view so effectively that for decades only those closest to him even knew what he looked like.Dan Barry is a national columnist for The New York Times and the author, most recently, of “The Boys in the Bunkhouse: Servitude and Salvation in the Heartland.”B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1962B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1950B. 1974B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1965B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1947B. 1952B. 1929Advertisement