AdvertisementSupported byA three-judge panel in Superior Court dismissed perjury, obstruction and conspiracy counts against Graham B. Spanier, the university’s former president; Gary Schultz, a former vice president; and Tim Curley, the athletic director at the time the abuses occurred.The court found that attorney-client privilege had been violated when Cynthia Baldwin, then the university’s general counsel, testified against the three former administrators before a grand jury.“Ms. Baldwin did not adequately explain to Curley that her representation of him was solely as an agent of Penn State and that she did not represent his individual interests,” Judge Mary Jane Bowes wrote.Mr. Spanier, Mr. Schultz and Mr. Curley are still charged with failure to report suspected abuse and endangering the welfare of children. One perjury count still remains for Mr. Curley.A spokesman for the state’s attorney general, Kathleen Kane, said the office was reviewing the opinion and would not comment until it was complete. The office can either file for reconsideration by the full court or appeal the ruling to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.“We are grateful that the court has so carefully considered the record and has concluded that very important rights of Dr. Spanier were violated,” Tim Lewis, a lawyer for the former president, told The Associated Press.The three men were charged with lying to investigators about their knowledge of previous sexual abuse allegations against Mr. Sandusky, a former assistant football coach under Joe Paterno. Mr. Sandusky was convicted in 2012 of sexually abusing 10 boys from 1994 and 2008 and is serving a 30- to 60-year term in a state prison in western Pennsylvania. He maintains his innocence and is appealing.In building the case against the Penn State officials, the attorney general’s office focused on allegations that they concealed claims in 1998 and 2001 that Sandusky had abused young boys on campus.The charges mirrored many of the same issues raised in a report released in July 2012 by Louis J. Freeh, the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who conducted a seven-month inquiry commissioned by Penn State. Mr. Freeh concluded that university leaders had disregarded the welfare of Sandusky’s victims.In their appeals, Mr. Spanier, Mr. Schultz and Mr. Curley claimed that they believed Ms. Baldwin was acting as their lawyer when the investigation began. Judge Bowes found that essential parts of the case against the three administrators relied on “impermissible privileged communications.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS