A particular vision of the American dream has shaped elections for decades. What happens when people stop believing in it?AdvertisementThe whole episode revealed a fundamental tension underlying this year’s anomalous presidential contest. America’s self-­image as a middle-­class nation is so deeply ingrained in the country’s politics that we don’t often stop to think what, precisely, that means: whether it defines a concrete socioeconomic identity — a country where most people are neither very rich nor very poor — or an aspiration, the notion that if you “work hard and play by the rules,” as Clinton put it the first time she ran for president, you’re entitled to at least a modest prosperity. “Everyday Americans” was an attempt to acknowledge that the gap between these two ideas has widened to the point that ignoring it seems out of touch. Yet in its reversal, the campaign inadvertently revealed just how ill ­equipped American politics is for a post-­middle-­class nation — how deeply the way the country speaks of itself is tied up with these aspirations, even as more and more of its citizens come to see them as out of reach.AdvertisementAs the first election results and exit polls came in, Trump’s voters seemed to be mostly high-­school-­educated white men, mostly making less than $50,000 a year. Perhaps more surprising, this description also fits, with some tailoring, the voters who have propelled the candidacy of Bernie Sanders. In mostly white New Hampshire, Sanders beat Clinton among voters making less than $50,000 a year by a staggering 33 percentage points — twice as big as his margin with voters who made more than that — and by 36 percentage points among voters without college degrees. In Michigan, whose suburban voters are one of the most-­watched barometers in American politics, the margins were narrower but still notable: Sanders won white voters without a college degree by 15 percentage points, and voters making less than $50,000 by 3 percentage points.These insurgent candidates are capturing one of the two demographic groups that converged in the great middle-­class experiment that began seven decades ago. When people spoke of the middle class in the years immediately after World War II, they were typically talking about the group identified by the sociologist C.Wright Mills in his 1951 book, “White Collar”: the usually college-­educated, deskbound employees of a newly technocratic, corporate economy. It was only a few years later that the definition was generally extended to include skilled blue-­collar workers, who were now earning solid incomes on account of a booming postwar industrial economy and of unions that made sure their members got an equitable piece of it.Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The confluence of these two groups — a vision of insurance salesmen and machine operators, mowing the lawns of adjoining split-­level ranches and talking about Sunday’s game — felt extraordinary even in its own time, seemingly incontrovertible proof that American capitalism worked. “The fact is that America’s booming new middle-­income class consists, to a startling extent, of groups hitherto identified as proletarians,” Fortune reported in 1954. Instead of overthrowing the bourgeoisie, the proletariat had joined it.The white- and blue-­collar middle classes each tended to vote Democratic, which made sense: The new middle class’s good fortune was the combined product of the New Deal, postwar Keynesian economic policy, the G.I. Bill, organized labor and government-­backed mortgages. But in retrospect, the Democrats’ hold on the white middle class was balanced precariously on the racial status quo — which, by the mid-­1960s, was breaking apart. George Wallace, the segregationist Democratic governor of Alabama who ran for president in 1964 in protest of Lyndon B. Johnson’s turn toward civil rights, performed well not just in the South but also in white blue-­collar enclaves in the few Northern states where he was on the primary ballot. When he ran again as an independent in 1968, the members of the United Auto Workers Union local at the General Motors plant in Flint, Mich., voted to endorse him.Human-Resources SpecialistThe number of H.R. workers is projected to grow about as fast as the overall work force. But the long-term threat to H.R. from outsourcing and automation is real, as companies turn to low-cost vendors for things like benefits administration. That said, the complication of our country’s employment laws and the changing health-insurance landscape might increase demand for this work.In one sense, what had happened was obvious. The postwar suburbs in general had been a racial fortress, their homogeneity enforced by a web of government policies and unofficial restrictions making it difficult for nonwhites to own property in them, and few more so than Detroit’s. The white ex-­Democrats whom Greenberg’s team interviewed, he later wrote, “expressed a profound distaste for black Americans, a sentiment that pervaded almost everything they thought about government and politics. Blacks constituted the explanation for their vulnerability and for almost everything that had gone wrong in their lives; not being black was what constituted being middle class.”AdvertisementStill, Greenberg noted, Macomb voters had not defected en masse from the Democratic Party until after years of worsening economic circumstances — and until they perceived the Democrats as not only having taken up the banner of the urban poor and nonwhites but also having abandoned the white middle class. “These voters wondered why they weren’t the central drama of the Democratic Party,” Greenberg wrote. Greenberg suggested that Democrats offer a kind of grand bargain to the white middle-­class voters he called “Reagan Democrats”: The Democrats would reinstate the middle class as the gravitational center of the party’s economic policy if those voters accepted an expanded definition of who was included in the middle class.Charles Homans is the politics editor for the magazine.Go to Home Page »