AdvertisementSupported byThe DailyIt’s Tuesday afternoon in the United States Senate. Ever since the election, Senate Republicans have been fighting to repeal the Affordable Care Act. But after six months they’re only here: voting not to repeal or replace Obamacare, but merely to allow for debate to begin about its future.On today’s episode:• After the dramatic return of John McCain, the Senate narrowly votes to begin work on the repeal of the Affordable Care Act — then promptly votes down a plan to do exactly that.• The president steps up the attacks on his attorney general. Asked whether he intends to fire Jeff Sessions, he says, “Time will tell.” We discuss the public shaming with Jeremy W. Peters, who covers politics from Washington.Background reading:If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.On your iPhone or iPad:Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.On your Android phone or tablet:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, managing producer; Lynsea Garrison, producer; Rachel Quester, producer; Andy Mills, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor; Peter Sale, sound engineer. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director; Pedro Rosado, studio manager.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS