AdvertisementSupported byIn theory, in a democracy, the majority should influence — some would even say determine — the distribution of income. In practice, this is not the case.Over the past few decades, political scientists have advanced a broad range of arguments to explain why democracy has failed to stem the growth of inequality.The result, Piketty argues, is a political system that pits two top-down coalitions against each other:In the 1950s-60s, the vote for left-wing (socialist) parties in France and the Democratic Party in the US used to be associated with lower education & lower income voters. It (the left) has gradually become associated since 1970s-80s with higher education voters, giving rise to a multiple-elite party system: high-education elites vote for the left, while high-income/high-wealth elites for the right, i.e., intellectual elite (Brahmin left) vs business elite (merchant right).In this country, Democratic reforms adopted after the 1968 convention — an event marked by police violence against antiwar demonstrators — produced a radical shift in power within the Democratic Party.there was an American party system in which one party, the Republicans, was primarily responsive to white collar constituencies, and in which the other, the Democrats, was primarily responsive to blue collar constituencies.After reform, Shafer contends,there were two parties each responsive to quite different white collar constituencies, while the old blue collar majority within the Democratic Party was forced to try to squeeze back into the party once identified predominately with its needs.Shafer’s white collar constituency is, in fact, what Piketty describes as “a higher education” or “intellectual” elite — his “Brahmin left.”The Piketty report is a significant contribution to the growing collection of studies analyzing the inability of democratic forces to adequately counter inequality.They cite five possible explanations.First, growing bipartisan acceptance of the tenets of free market capitalism. Second, immigration and low turnout among the poor resulting in an increasingly affluent median voter. Third, “rising real income and wealth has made a larger fraction of the population less attracted to turning to government for social insurance.” Fourth, the rich escalated their use of money to influence policy through campaign contributions, lobbying and other mechanisms. And finally, the political process has been distorted by polarization and gerrymandering in ways that “reduce the accountability of elected officials to the majority.”In the five years since their essay was published, we’ve seen all of this play out; in the case of campaign contributions in particular, the authors provide strong evidence of the expanding clout of the very rich.In recent decades, there has been a large increase in the number of people who contribute to political campaigns: In 1980, there were 224,322 individual contributions, the four authors write, and by 2012, that number grew to 3,138,564.The accompanying chart shows that the share of contributions donated by the top 0.01 percent of the voting age population grew from 16 percent in the 1980s to 40 percent in 2016.In other words, if money buys influence over policy, the top 0.01 percent bought nearly triple the influence in 2016 that it purchased in the early 1980s.It’s not a new thing. This is what George Wallace and Ronald Reagan were about also. Its current reincarnation is almost surely due to the fact that both globalization and technological changes have left behind vast swathes of the country. But why have these people found a home in the Republican Party, not in the Democratic Party? That’s less clear, but if I were to make a guess, I would say that this is related to the fact that economic hardship does not work by itself. It needs to tap into other grievances, and in the US context these have been related to pent-up hostility towards blacks and immigrants (and perhaps their own albeit slow upward mobility). If so, it is natural that it is the Republican Party, with its southern strategy and more welcoming attitude towards soft racism, that has come to house this discontent.Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale who writes extensively about inequality, praised Piketty’s work but noted that he and othershave argued that the Democrats were cross-pressured by rising inequality because they wanted to maximize campaign cash as well as votes and because they got most of their institutional support from a coalition of single-issue groups. This cross-pressure, in turn, contributed to their weak attempt to maintain the allegiance of the white working class.Like Acemoglu, Hacker argues that the Piketty analysis does not place enough emphasis on race:It doesn’t seem very fundamental to Piketty’s story. Yet it’s impossible to deny that the realignment of the parties around race created the opening for the GOP to gain the support of white voters — especially downscale white voters — by exploiting resentment of racial and ethnic minorities.“I’m not sure this analysis is all that useful,” Baker wrote me.I see Piketty is missing the way in which markets have been restructured to redistribute income upward and to take away options for reversing inequality and promoting growth in ways that benefit low and middle income workers.Piketty, in Baker’s view, “sees the market outcomes as largely given and redistribution just means tax and transfer policy.”Baker is not optimistic about full-throated economic liberalism in the Democratic Party.“Because the party has largely supported an agenda that redistributes upward, they have lost much of their working class base,” he wrote in his email to me:The friends you keep matter. The speeches that folks like Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama give at Wall Street firms are not a good look. The banks don’t hand you huge honorariums if they think you are going to take their money and put them in prison.There is “an ongoing battle,” Baker continued,in the Democratic Party as well as in most of the left parties across Europe. There are those who would like to accept inequality and focus exclusively on issues like gender equality and anti-racism. I would never minimize the importance of combating gender inequality or racism/nativism, but if that means ignoring the policies that have led to the enormous inequality we now see, that is not a serious progressive agenda.If Democrats must adopt a broader agenda to counter inequality, Piketty’s study is indispensable. He demonstrates that the highly educated constituency currently controlling the party has been ineffective in protecting the material interests of the less well off.For one thing, the well-educated leadership of the left is thriving under the status quo. The economic gains of those with college degrees — now, remember, the majority of the Democratic electorate — are shown in the accompanying graphic. From 1988 to 2012, the inflation-adjusted income of college graduates increased by 16 percent and for those with advanced degrees by 42 percent.In contrast, those with some college but no degree saw a 1 percent increase; those with a high school degree saw a 0.3 percent income growth; and those without a high school degree saw their income decline by 13 percent.There is no question that the Democrats’ loss of non-college white support has deep roots in the civil rights revolution of the 1960s. The fight for equal rights for African-Americans resulted in the full-scale regional realignment of the South toward the Republican Party and turned once solidly Democratic precincts in working class sections of Chicago, Boston, Milwaukee and other major cities into partisan battlegrounds.These upheavals have left the party of the left ill-equipped to tackle not only inequality but economic mobility more broadly and with it the pervasive decline of much of what has become red America.This in turn raises the question: Can a party split between an upscale wing that is majority white and a heavily minority working class wing effectively advocate on behalf of a liberal-left economic agenda? The jury is out on this question, but the verdict could very well be no.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported bySince before President Trump was elected — and with greater frequency afterward — historians, political scientists and journalists have wondered how autocratic our democracy might become.The results also revealsubstantial declines (greater than 10 percentage points) in the belief that the government does not interfere with the press, protects free speech rights, that opinions on policy are heard and that candidates disclose information.Helmke and her colleagues warn that these trends constitute a threat to democracy:If scholars are right that erosion proceeds on a piecemeal basis, and that the first steps often entail targeting democracy’s “referees,” then our results regarding declines in judicial independence and support for a free press are especially disturbing.The release of the Bright Line survey comes at a moment when Trump has once again defied traditional norms and constraints concerning the treatment of political opponents.You’re up there, you’ve got half the room going totally crazy, wild — they loved everything, they want to do something great for our country. And you have the other side, even on positive news — really positive news, like that — they were like death and un-American. Un-American. Somebody said, “treasonous.” I mean, yeah, I guess, why not? Can we call that treason? Why not?If we don’t change the legislation, get rid of these loopholes where killers come into our country and continue to kill, if we don’t change it, let’s have a shutdown. We’ll do a shutdown, and it’s worth it for our country.The decline of public faith in America’s democratic institutions can be seen in the accompanying chart describing Bright Line’s findings.Those polled were asked to rate whether the United States fully meets, mostly meets, partly meets or does not meet more than two dozen principles of democracy. The bars in the graphic capture the drop in the percentage of people who agree that the United States fully or mostly lives up to democratic standards.The authors of the analysis of the survey conclude that the “overall picture is sobering,” citing public agreement “that the performance of U.S. democracy has declined” during Trump’s tenure in office.“The damage being done is twofold,” Dolan wrote by email:The president’s strategy is doing permanent damage to the view of law enforcement agencies, at least among the segment of the population that takes what he says as truth.This is only part of “the more general problem we are having today with the success Trump and others have had in creating the view that there is no objective truth,” Dolan argued:The manipulation of the truth by the president and other Republicans continues to degrade public discussion of issues.While polarization has created a political universe composed of two truths, one Democratic, the other Republican, Trump has driven, and profited from, this duality.Iyengar posed the following hypothetical:Let’s assume that Mueller uncovers evidence of collusion and close associates of the Prez are implicated. Republicans are likely to deny the validity of the charges on the grounds that the investigators are biased and Republicans in Congress, as they’ve repeatedly demonstrated, will stick by Trump since the base is with him. Trump, of course, will continue with the ‘hoax’ narrative, and his surrogates in the media will be only too happy to back him up. At that point, we will have a very real threat to the rule of law.Republican confidence moved in the opposite direction, from 46 to 31 percent.Polarization by party identity is so powerful at the moment that most voters see the world through thick red and blue lenses. Almost everything is politicized. And, in almost every study I have run, I find that Republicans are more intense partisans than Democrats on average. We’ve seen partisanship color Republican evaluations of the FBI (negatively) and Russia and Putin (positively).Theodoridis argued that the damage to “any given institution is not likely to last beyond its usefulness in a specific political context.” But, he warned,the more pernicious problem is the very phenomenon of universal politicization. If everything, even the most esteemed institutions and norms, is subjected to the power of partisan motivated reasoning, then there really cease to be esteemed institutions and norms.Moving from politicization to politics, how likely are these trends to play out in the midterm elections?If the economy stays strong and swing voters see benefits to the economy and themselves from tax cuts, the Republicans may well hold on to the House and, more easily, the Senate.If Rosenthal is right, then the future of democracy in America during the Trump administration depends as much or more on unemployment, take home pay, the Dow Jones industrial average, tax rates and the gross domestic product as on principled support for the rule of law.In all likelihood, as the investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, continues to pursue lines of inquiry reaching deep into the White House, Trump will have plenty of opportunities in the near future to push the envelope on the rule of law.Presidential approval and the economy are the two big contextual predictors of congressional elections in the midterms. And those are pushing in opposite directions.Looking forward toward the midterm elections, Ansolabehere is not optimistic about Democratic prospects to win back control of the House:I see the Democrats poised right now to make net gains of about 10 to 14 seats. They need 25 or so depending on vacancies.That could all change, he added:A sag in the economy over the summer or really bad news for Trump could tip twenty or so races that are leaning GOP right now.Consistently, we find that Americans oppose the concentration of authority in the presidency; in fact, we find that Democrats and Republicans exhibit far greater agreement in their opposition to unilateral powers than they exhibit in their evaluations of the sitting president. This opposition, we find, is driven by their beliefs in constitutional principles. Further, we find that the public penalizes presidents for circumventing the constitutional order to take matters into their own hands.In other words, Rogowski wrote,our research suggests that how presidents wield power matters, and the public does not view presidents fondly for violating accepted constitutional arrangements. Democrats, therefore, have an opportunity to mobilize public support against President Trump by emphasizing the president’s violations of constitutional norms.At the same time, Rogowski added,Sometimes the other institutions push back. For instance, Franklin Roosevelt’s seeking of a third (and then a fourth) term is among the most important norm violations in American political history. He hadn’t been dead for two years before both chambers of Congress proposed the 22nd amendment to limit presidents to two terms. After Lincoln’s use of emergency powers to flex presidential power in ways not previously seen, Congress fought back against his successor, Andrew Johnson. More of his vetoes were overridden (15) than for any other president and Congress limited presidential influence over executive branch employment by passing the Tenure of Office Act (1867).The Rogowski and Reeves thesis faces a certain test. Trump won the Republican nomination and the presidency by conducting a campaign directly challenging the notion that the electorate will punish a politician for “violating accepted constitutional arrangements.”He has not wavered from this course throughout the first year of his presidency, and, barring unforeseen events, it will guide him into the 2020 election.If Republicans retain control of both branches of Congress in 2018 — even if by just one vote in the House and a 50-50 split (with Vice President Pence the tiebreaker) in the Senate — Trump will claim vindication. His assault on the pillars of democracy will continue unabated, with increasingly insidious effect.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byFrom the release of James Comey’s private memos about his meetings with President Trump to developing talks with North Korea, let us catch you up on six big stories from the week.The memos offer an intimate look at the interactions between officials at the highest levels of government in the months leading to Mr. Comey’s ouster, elaborating on the president’s concerns about the salacious dossier detailing his supposed ties to Russia and the investigation into Michael T. Flynn, his national security adviser at the time.Additional Reading and ListeningRead the memos here.6 Takeaways from the James Comey MemosAdditional ReadingSanctions Are Hurting North Korea. Can They Make Kim Give In?Meet Me in Mongolia: How Aging Aircraft May Dictate Kim-Trump VenueTreaty to Formally End Korean War Is Being Discussed, South Confirms“With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” she said.Additional ReadingDivided on Strikes, Democrats and Republicans Press for Clearer Syria StrategyA Hard Lesson in Syria: Assad Can Still Gas His Own PeopleAdditional ReadingHow Michael Cohen and President Trump Are ConnectedWhat Sean Hannity Has Been Saying About Michael CohenNo Disclosure? No Problem. Sean Hannity Gets a Pass at Fox News.Additional ReadingG.O.P. Pollster Withdraws From Role Advising Both Pence and HaleyTrump Picks Monetary Expert for No. 2 Job at Federal ReserveShe and her husband, President George Bush, had celebrated their 73rd wedding anniversary in January, making them the longest-married couple in presidential history.Mrs. Bush, who had congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, decided this week to forgo further medical treatment and instead spend her last few days saying goodbye to loved ones and her family.Additional ReadingDignitaries React to the Death of Barbara BushBarbara Bush Mourned in Houston as a Revered Matriarch and ‘Salty’ NeighborAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byFrom Mark Zuckerberg’s congressional testimony to Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s announcement that he will not seek re-election, here are six of the biggest stories driving American politics this week.Listen to how the president reacted to news of the raid on Monday:Additional readingBefore Learning of Raid, Trump’s Legal Team Convened to Discuss Mueller InterviewWhat Could Happen if Trump Fired RosensteinInvestigators Focus on Another Trump Ally: The National EnquirerWarrants and Privilege: Legal Questions About the Raids on Trump’s Lawyer“These are not the actions of a man,” Mr. Trump said of last weekend’s attack in a televised address from the White House Diplomatic Room. “They are crimes of a monster instead.”Additional readingPresident Trump’s Address to the Nation on the AirstrikesTrump’s Tweets on Syria, Russia and China: The Triumph of ContradictionHow Syria’s Death Toll Is Lost in the Fog of War“This president is unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values,” Mr. Comey wrote in the book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership,” lacing his recollections of Mr. Trump’s demands and conversations with brutal impressions of the president’s physical appearance and mannerisms.Additional readingAdditional readingTrump’s Tweets on Syria, Russia and China: The Triumph of ContradictionHow Syria’s Death Toll Is Lost in the Fog of WarTrump Weighs More Robust Military Strike Against SyriaAs many as 50 House Republican seats are at risk in competitive races this year, and his departure makes it more difficult for the Republican Party to hold onto the House majority. Republicans also face a single-seat majority in the Senate.Additional readingA House (and a Party) Upended as Paul Ryan Calmly Takes His LeavePaul Ryan’s Hometown Takes Stock as Speaker (and Neighbor) Changes CoursePaul Ryan Is Leaving. Who’s Running for His Seat?In Missouri, Governor’s Scandal Ensnares a Republican-Leaning Senate RaceBut it remains unclear how such regulation would unfold, given that lawmakers are hesitant to infringe upon First Amendment protections and the innovation of Silicon Valley while still monitoring companies that collect such wide amounts of private data from users.Additional readingSenators Had a Lot to Say About Facebook. That Hasn’t Stopped Them From Using It.Fact Check: What Mark Zuckerberg Said About Facebook, Privacy and RussiaMark Zuckerberg’s Own Data Disclosed After Senate Hearing: His NotesMr. Trump appeared to shift his approach to the trade agreement partially in response to concerns over the impact of his trade stance on farmers and a looming trade war with China.Additional readingTrump Weighs Return to Trans-Pacific Partnership. Not So Fast, Say Members.Kudlow Plays ‘Happy Warrior’ Role in Counseling TrumpIs Trump Serious About Trade War? China’s Leaders Hunt for AnswersAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump’s immigration proposal has put Democrats in a bind; they know it and he knows it.In 2014, immigrant women accounted for about 901,000 U.S. births, which marked a threefold increase from 1970 when immigrant women accounted for about 274,000 births. Meanwhile, the annual number of births to U.S.-born women dropped by 11 percent during that same time period, from 3.46 million in 1970 to 3.10 million in 2014.Trump’s proposal more than meets Democratic demands on DACA. But in return Trump wants Democrats to swallow three proposals of varying unpalatability.First, the creation of a $25 billion fund for construction of a southern border wall to prevent illegal entry to the United States, primarily by undocumented Hispanics.The greatest unknown is how immigration reform will influence the voting behavior of the white working class.Teixeira argues thatThe view that Democrats can get along without working-class white voters is simply wrong. It reflects wishful thinking and a rigid set of political priors — namely, that Democrats’ political problems always stem from insufficient motivation of base voters — more than a cold, hard look at what the electoral and demographic data say.The conflicts the Trump proposals present for Democrats are most painful to Hispanic and black elected officials.The White House is using Dreamers to mask their underlying xenophobic, isolationist, and un-American policies, which will harm millions of immigrants living in the United States and millions of others who want to legally immigrate and contribute to our country.Despite these complaints, there are many political analysts sympathetic to the Democratic plight who contend that Trump has boxed Democrats in.Many Democrats fear that extensive investments and political posturing made on behalf of immigrants will be regarded as of little value to a large swath of independent voters whose support Democrats need to increase their representation in Congress.In a reference to the demonstrated electoral liabilities of so-called “identity politics,” Gold argued that concerned Democrats worry thatby emphasizing particularistic rather than practical issues with a broad impact, they will once again lose the politically advantageous position that appears to be taking shape for them in 2018 and 2020.The Democrats don’t have a lot of good options other than to support it enough that it can pass with unified Republican support.McCarty explained further:Blocking it would allow the Trump Administration to suggest that the Democrats were willing to trade Dreamers for “lottery” and “chain” migration, as well as position them as soft on border security.An advantage in accepting the Trump proposal, McCarty continued,is that border security appropriations and visa programs can be fixed if the Democrats regain control. The effects of Dreamer deportations and/or sending them back into the shadows is far less reversible.Trump and Stephen Miller, a senior adviser to the president, have clearly made this calculation and decided that they win either way. Take, for example, the following tweet from the president’s account on Jan. 27:I have offered DACA a wonderful deal, including a doubling in the number of recipients & a twelve year pathway to citizenship, for two reasons: (1) Because the Republicans want to fix a long time terrible problem. (2) To show that Democrats do not want to solve DACA, only use it!Borosage went on:What should Democrats do? I’d take the deal, after pushing for concessions on family unification and lottery system, and pushing against full commitment of $25 billion as an outrage.If the Democrats compromise on a few of the non-DACA items and the (Congressional) Republican position is no DACA relief, then the Republican position becomes untenable and looks as though are caving to their extreme nativist faction. And if the Democrats make their position a clean bill on DACA and no compromise on the other items, it hands the Republicans a perfect wedge item going into the 2018 election, possibly keeping them in control of both houses.In fact, I found an unexpectedly high percentage of the experts I contacted — most of whom are sympathetic to the plight of immigrants — in general agreement that Democrats would be wise to come to some kind of an agreement with Trump.in today’s political climate, it’s very hard to imagine a deal that will placate both sides for long, as both parties seem to define winning in zero-sum terms.So far at least, arguments in favor of cutting a deal are not selling with the Democratic leadership — although the leaders’ position may be more of a bargaining tactic than a principled stance.While @realDonaldTrump finally acknowledged that the Dreamers should be allowed to stay here and become citizens, he uses them as a tool to tear apart our legal immigration system and adopt the wish list that anti-immigration hard-liners have advocated for years.The president represents himself as generous towards Dreamers, but he is holding them hostage with the most extreme anti-immigrant agenda in generations. We heard more insulting words of ignorance and prejudice towards patriotic immigrant families last night.the so-called compromise between DACA and border security is extremely disproportional — weighted heavily toward the latter which is characterized by simple bumper sticker messages about family migration, border security and the visa lottery that is aimed at appealing to the extreme anti-immigrant wings of Trump’s Republican base.Frey wrote in his email that he couldnot imagine Democratic senators or congressmen agreeing to anything close to this plan — in light of their base which not only includes Hispanics, Asian-Americans and other minorities — but also rising support in recent state and local elections they have received from suburban college graduate women and millennials.Democrats cannot make the politics of fear go away simply by courting the young-adult and minority voting blocs. While it is true that the supersize turnout and support of those groups helped elect President Obama twice, the white portion of the electorate, which votes strongly Republican, underperformed in support of John McCain in 2008, and white turnout was down in 2012.There is, Frey continued, “a sharp lag in diversity between the overall population and the portion that turns out on Election Day.” It is “the older electorate — those most greatly fearing change,” he wrote,that will be gaining as baby boomers continue to age. By my calculation, the number of (mostly white) eligible voters over age 45 will be 26 percent larger in 2024 than those under age 45. This disparity will be further widened by the higher turnout of older white voters, who may not determine future elections but will continue to have a strong voice.When I asked him if there was a disparity between his recent comment to me and the Post op-ed, Frey wrote back:I stand by the fact that the politics of fear (to older non-college whites) can work to some extent. But I also think white women, especially college graduate white women, can help to mute the impact on the immigration issue because of their disdain for Trump. If Dems are looking at 2018, it’s not just the immigration issue that is important to those women but Trump’s stance on women’s issues in general — critical of planned parenthood, abortion, his support of Roy Moore in Alabama, his disdain for political correctness and his overall boorishness may counter whatever gains he may get, on immigration, from older white non-college men and women (and even the latter support may be more tenuous). Another group is millennials, now strongly anti-Trump, who could be motivated to turn out in greater numbers.In short, the base that will respond to Trump playing the “immigration card” may be dwindling in light of his other positions and demeanor since in office — including his handling of the Russian investigation. I think the Democrats are counting on that.In response to the question, “Which comes closer to your view, ‘immigrants today strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents,’ or ‘immigrants today burden the country by taking jobs, housing and health care’?” there was almost no difference in the responses of Democrats and Republicans in 2006.In 2016, 78 percent of Democrats had a positive view of immigration compared with 35 percent of Republicans.It is tempting to read polls as a reflection of “what the public wants” on some issue. Politicians and activists routinely portray poll results in this way when they seem to lend popular legitimacy to their preferred programs. The reality is more complicated. The great majority of Americans do not hold clear, stable, well-defined positions on almost any of these issues.Levy wrote that his “sense” is that a final dealcould include funding for the wall, which was in fact not an unpopular policy idea until it became a signature issue in Trump’s campaign, and possibly also curtailing the diversity visa lottery.He cautioned, however, that it isunlikely that the Democrats would accede to anything approaching the kinds of sweeping cuts to family-based admissions that the administration has proposed.Even if much of the public has ambivalent feelings about immigration, that doesn’t mean the issue will have no more than a moderate impact on the election.This framework may anger a critical component of Trump’s base if they come to view it as “amnesty.” This in turn could impact turnout in the 2018 midterms.Crucially, Ekins noted that immigration attitudes wereFor Republicans, it would be difficult to defend televised deportations of hard-working, law-abiding young men and women to countries of which they have little or no memory.There is more political capital in an issue left festering than in a problem solved.As both parties struggle with the logistical and moral quagmire that the immigration issue represents, they face problems that they need to solve and not to solve at the same time.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byPostmodernists, Heer wrote, describe a world whereFragmented sound bites have replaced linear thinking, where nostalgia (“Make America Great Again”) has replaced historical consciousness or felt experiences of the past, where simulacra is indistinguishable from reality, where an aesthetic of pastiche and kitsch (Trump Tower) replaces modernism’s striving for purity and elitism, and where a shared plebeian culture of vulgarity papers over intensifying class disparities. In virtually every detail, Trump seems like the perfect manifestation of postmodernism.Along parallel lines, Ernst wrote,if the only one true thing in the world is that all truth and morality are relative, then anyone who pretends otherwise is either an idiot or a fraud. Hence the contemporary appeal of the antihero, and the disappearance of the traditional hero.Call it what you want: relativism, constructivism, deconstruction, postmodernism, critique. The idea is the same: Truth is not found, but made, and making truth means exercising power.It is not usually the job of political journalists to analyze postmodernism, so I turned to some scholars who are devoted to the subject.are not socially constructed but emerge from his own personal sense of what will promote his popularity, his power, and his wealth. This is why his particular, and acute, narcissism is so dangerous: he appeals to no social standards at all, only his own imagination as to what is in his own personal interest.I don’t think Trump should be called a postmodern president, but simply a liar.For something to be objectively true, Oksala wrote,does not mean that we have to have (or can have) absolute and eternally infallible knowledge of it. But our knowledge claims have to be available for public scrutiny by the scientific community and go through a rigorous peer-review process in order to qualify as scientific or objective truths.In the present political climate truth and power have become uncoupled to a certain extent. It’s natural to wonder whether this means the notion of objective truth has been undermined. But it could be the opposite, namely, that what we’re living through isn’t the loss of the category of objective truth but rather a battle over who has objective truth on their side. In other words, the very category of objective truth has become an ideological weapon, having been displaced from relatively neutral territory to the political battlefield.In philosophy, the dominant idea was probably Jean-Francois Lyotard’s view that we are at “the end of grand narratives,” the end of the idea that our history or our world or our existence can be accounted for by a single overarching narrative that accounts for it (or them).We are the species that discovered doubt. Is there enough food laid by for winter? Have I miscalculated? Is my mate cheating on me? Should we have moved south? Is it safe to enter this cave?Dennett adamantly rejects “a slide into some form of relativism.” He argues that while “it is true that past scientific orthodoxies have themselves inspired policies that hindsight reveals to be seriously flawed” and that “the methods of science aren’t foolproof,” it is also true thatthey are indefinitely perfectible. Just as important: there is a tradition of criticism that enforces improvement whenever and wherever flaws are discovered. The methods of science, like everything else under the sun, are themselves objects of scientific scrutiny, as method becomes methodology, the analysis of methods.Trump’s utter indifference to the truth, what some of his critics have come to call his “normlessness,” is intensely alarming to many Washington analysts.who aroused such grave and widespread doubts about his commitment to the institutions of self-government, to the norms democracy requires, to the legitimacy of opposition in a free republic, and to the need for basic knowledge about major policy questions and about how government works.They continue:Norms, we argue, are often more important than formal rules in ensuring the function of a constitutional republic.Observing that “Trump has violated these basic understandings of how our democracy works in an unprecedented way,” Dionne, Mann and Ornstein go on:This norm breaking, is not simply a matter of political nicety. It is part of Trump’s larger assault on our institutions, his tendency to think in autocratic terms, his abusive attitude toward the judicial system, and his disrespect for civil servants and the day-to-day work of government. We show how Trump’s words and behavior parallel those of authoritarian leaders, past and present.Wealth, according to Durkheim,deceives us into believing that we depend on ourselves only. Reducing the resistance we encounter from objects, it suggests the possibility of unlimited success against them. The less limited one feels, the more intolerable all limitation appears.Trump’s status and wealth have allowed him to ignore limits, norms, rules and regulations and have created a vicious circle — as violations of customary norms go unpunished, such violations become ever more widespread.The “modern” in “postmodern” refers to the idea that we should seek truth by the objective methods of reason and science — not by appeals to emotion or tradition. ‘Postmodern’ is often used to refer to those who think there is no objective truth, just various devices we use to con people into agreeing with us. In this sense, Trump is postmodern.For Foucault, Trump, who seeks not truth but only power, would be an extreme example of what serious postmodernism opposes.a strain in postmodernism was so giddily determined to call into question the posturing of Enlightenment scientism that its advocates recklessly dismissed the very existence of objective truths.To these earlier advocates of postmodernism,everything is just the game of power, they noisily declared, assuring themselves that their deconstructive claims would somehow always be in the service of radical critique.This view, however, “was eviscerated by philosophers like Bernard Williams and has, I think, virtually no current standing.”academic skepticism about objective truth doesn’t as a rule deny that we can know the fact of the matter — e.g. the answer to the question “How many German troops crossed bridges over the Rhine on March 7, 1936?” Or “By how many degrees did the average global temperature rise between 1987 and 2017?”Instead, Bromwich argues that academic skepticismis directed against the assumption that any particular interpretation of the facts should be trusted as quite reliable.These movements in theoretical analysis are, however, alien to Trump, Bromwich wrote:Anyway, none of it was required to create Trump’s attitude toward fact and truth. He seems a demagogue of a familiar modern type, but far less coherent and more capricious than most of his predecessors.In the transcript, Muir and Trump go back and forth for 1,168 words — an eternity on television — until Trump acknowledges how he justifies the claim: “You know what’s important, millions of people agree with me.” Trump told Muir that people called in to say, “ ‘We agree with Mr. Trump. We agree.’ They’re very smart people.”The Muir interview provides evidence in support of a thesis developed by Carlos Prado, professor emeritus of philosophy at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. Prado argues that instead of representing postmodernism, Trump embodies a very different phenomenon: “Post-Truth.”“Users of post-truth see themselves as expressing their opinions, but opinions that call for no verification, and in being their opinions, are on a par with anyone else’s opinions,” Prado writes in a forthcoming book, “The New Subjectivism”:Post-truth is the final step in the misguided move away from objective truth to relativization of truth. If truth is objective, assertions or propositions are true depending on how things are. If truth is relative, assertions or propositions are true depending on how people take things to be.“The criticism of postmodern theory as ‘anything goes relativism’ is a bum rap,” says John Caputo, emeritus professor of religion at Syracuse University:In postmodern theory we are better served by the idea of having ‘good reasons,’ meaning the best idea that anybody has at the moment, remembering that some obscure fellow working in a patent office because he can’t find a job teaching physics is liable to change the face of physics tomorrow morning.The problem with Trump, according to Caputo,is not that he is an “anything goes relativist,” but that he is an authoritarian, a would-be strong man, who launches vile personal attacks on anyone who criticizes him.anyone would be inclined to blame intellectual trends in the academy or in the arts for the way that Trump speaks, thinks, or acts. Given that he does not read very much at all, and that the kind of literary and social theory you reference depends on reading closely, the two trends could not be further apart.As a result, Koopman continued in an email,only those who are cynical about truth itself can take him seriously. His style is not “postmodern” at all, but is rather cynical.If postmodernism does not account for Trump’s bludgeoning of the truth, what does? A field that provides insight into the Trump phenomenon is evolutionary theory.The answer lies in raw tribalism: when someone is perceived as a champion of one’s coalition, all is forgiven. The same is true for opinions: a particular issue can become a sacred value, shibboleth, or affirmation of allegiance to one’s team, and its content no longer matters. This is part of a growing realization in political psychology that tribalism has been underestimated in our understanding of politics, and ideological coherence and political and scientific literacy overestimated.Once tribalism becomes embedded in the political system, Pinker wrote,the full ingenuity of human cognition is recruited to valorize the champion and shore up the sacred beliefs. You can always dismiss criticism as being motivated by the bias of one’s enemies. Our cognitive and linguistic faculties are endlessly creative — that’s what makes our species so smart — and that creativity can be always deployed to reframe issues in congenial or invidious terms.Don Symons, professor of anthropology emeritus at the University of California-Santa Barbara, made a similar point in an email:Our species is profoundly coalitional, and in most times and places moral prescriptions apply only to one’s in-group, not to humanity in general. I don’t see any evidence that we evolved innate, universal moral rules about how to treat all humans. That’s why history, as James Joyce said, is a nightmare. Prehistory is worse. I assume that coalitional-thinking is what Trump was getting at when he claimed that he could shoot someone on 5th Avenue and his base would still love him. It’s not that they feel that killing a random stranger for no reason is morally ok; it’s that loyalty to their coalition leader is primary.If tribalism has begun to supplant traditional partisanship, their argument suggests, lying in politics will metastasize as traditional constraints continue to fall by the wayside.Trump’s success, such as it is, has been to accelerate the ongoing transformation of traditional political competition into an atavistic struggle in which each side claims moral superiority and defines the opposition as evil.These developments have been unfolding for decades, but the 2016 election was a turning point that appears to have the potential to corrupt the system beyond repair. Trump is determined to leave the destruction of democratic procedure as his legacy. Instead of granting him the title of postmodernist, let’s say instead that Trump is a nihilist who seeks to trample, to trash, to blight, to break and to burn.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported by“2016 saw the greatest number of votes cast by young white men in the past 12 years — markedly higher than their female counterparts,” Kawashima-Ginsberg wrote.That development, Ekins argues,could have negative ramifications for the Democrats because identity issues are not a unifying force among their base and remain divisive among the general public as well.to say gender equality is a “very important” issue — 66 percent of Democratic women, 47 percent of Democratic men, 35 percent of all Americans.In addition, the survey found that 64 percent of Democratic women strongly disagreed with the statement “When women demand equality these days, they are actually seeking special favors,” compared with 51 percent of Democratic men and 35 percent of all those polled.about three-fourths (76 percent) of Republicans and two-thirds (65 percent) of independents believe it’s primarily used as a tool to stifle debate.If a political candidate has been accused of sexual harassment by multiple people, would you still consider voting for them if you agreed with them on the issues, or would you definitely not vote for them?Among all voters, 66 percent said they would “definitely” not vote for the candidate while 24 percent said they would “consider” voting for the candidate. So far so good. Democrats, however, were 84-10 against the candidate and independents were also opposed, 73-19. A plurality of Republicans, 48 percent, said they would consider the candidate, and 34 percent said they would not. Crucially, among Republican men, 56 percent said they would consider voting for the candidate and 29 percent said they would not.Trump displays unalloyed masculine strength. His supporters do not care if he is predatory, insulting, or offensive as long as he is never in doubt, especially if he is kicking the limp Washington establishment around. Trump’s instinct-driven behavior confirms that he is the archetypal alpha-male, the unfiltered reptilian brain, concerned only with sustenance, survival or sex. If anything enters his world, they know he must either eat it, kill it, or mate with it. That’s why they like him. For about half of America, that is terrifying. For the other half, Trump’s strength is the only thing they can count on to protect them from return of the elite bloodsuckers who would devour them.Castellanos continued, heating up his rhetoric:Trump’s supporters don’t expect his unrestrained id to ponder the details of briefing papers before he eats the red meat in front of him. As long as Trump displays strength and grabs the media, the establishment and America’s adversaries by the pussy, he’s the T Rex many of his supporters want.If the idea is that Democrats can win over and mobilize people who did not vote for them last cycle by calling Trump a sexist, and Roy Moore a predator — even if many voters agree and are disturbed by Moore and Trump — many of them can also sympathize with Trump in a sense. The same people who are bashing Trump have also disparaged them (Trump supporters) as misogynistic, racist, homophobic, ignorant, etc. — to their minds, unfairly. So they don’t put a lot of stock in those messengers, and indeed, hearing Democrats sling these kinds of labels around will probably just stir up resentment against the left.progressives have done a great job framing racial inequality, feminism and LGBTQ rights as part of the same basic struggle. However, this association works both ways. Accusations of misogyny, for instance, are often heard in the context of a fundamentally anti-white, anti-Christian culture war — a zero-sum campaign waged against ordinary hard-working Americans by condescending and politically-correct liberal elites.Feminism and anti-feminism are essentially baked into the political parties at this point and it is difficult to believe that there are many people left for the parties to capture on the basis of gender-linked issues including sexual harassment.Huddy warned specifically against Democrats adopting “a singular focus on harassment and gender issues” given the 2016 election outcome:Gender issues were front and center in Clinton’s campaign and that had something of a polarizing effect that likely contributed to weaker support for Clinton among white working class men.More important, according to Huddy,Democrats need to figure out how to combine issues linked to gender/feminism, race, and immigration — identity politics — into a more coherent economic framework that reduces the sense that one group wins at another group’s expense.I asked Pepin and Cotter about the significance of their findings for the #MeToo movement. Cotter emailed back:My own work, which has focused on the stalled gender revolution over the past twenty years, would suggest some mix of optimism and pessimism about this. One of the apparent reasons for the stall is the flagging of the women’s movement after the successes of the 1970s and the defeat of the ERA in the 1980s.On the optimistic side for Democrats, Cotter wrote,this moment/movement definitely looks like it is taking hold — and it’s had real consequences at least at the level of individual harassers and abusers being called out and facing consequences. Many reports suggest a large number of female candidates for office at all levels.On the pessimistic side, Cotter argues,we can already see the beginnings of a backlash against #MeToo. There’s a large reservoir of gender traditionalism and misogyny as shown in the Trending towards Traditionalism paper — and it persists among youths so may be part of our social fabric for some time.It seems to me that women themselves are divided on these issues, at least some of the most conservative religious women. How else to explain the white women who voted for Roy Moore, despite everything, and who still support Trump?Some of the anti-Hillary women may shift to support Kirsten Gillibrand (if she does run), who may seem a much more acceptable sort of female candidate (more feminine, less threatening, perhaps) and has not, to my knowledge, appeared to insult women who stay home and bake cookies,” Griffith wrote, but “some segment of (white, anyway) women will evidently always stand by the macho male candidate, no matter how vile he may be.Putting those qualifications aside, Griffith argues that “it certainly appears that women’s #MeToo fury is a powerful force with no sign of ebbing,” adding, “but my God, anything could happen between now and then, couldn’t it!? Still, my money’s on them for this year and, if I had to bet that far in advance, probably for 2020 too.”She notes thatTurning toward upcoming elections, Kam makes the case thatfor these issues to play a truly transformative role in 2018 and 2020, I think they will need to be more directly tied to institutionalized sexism and associated policy solutions for it rather than tied to singling out specific wrongdoers and removing them from positions of power.For many women, according to Lake, “there is a continuum from sexual assault to sexual harassment to bad social and dating behavior,” all of which can help motivate female voters.This may be the first time in American history that an entire cohort of young women reports greater political engagement than their male peers. If so, this could presage a new wave of female activism that shifts the course of our politics in the 2018 mid-term elections and beyond.“That seems well behind the level of media attention the issue has received,” Franklin notes.There are at least two possible developments that could substantially increase the attention paid to the issue of sexual harassment.The first is Kirsten Gillibrand’s potential presidential candidacy. Gillibrand has taken the lead on the matter of sexual misconduct, declaring that “enough is enough” in a Dec. 6 Facebook post:We should not have to be explaining the gradations between sexual assault, harassment and unwelcome groping. And what message do we send to our sons and daughters when we accept gradations of crossing the line? None of it is ok and none of it should be tolerated.The second possible development is a Democratic takeover of the House or the Senate (or both) in the 2018 midterms. With majority control of either branch, Democrats would have the power to keep Republicans on the defensive and to set the issue agenda so as to maximize the benefits and minimize the costs of gender polarization.This contrast appears in question after question. Sixty-four percent of Democratic women say that they feel more unsafe after the election, compared with 14 percent of Republican women.In other words, what looks like a favorable climate now for Democrats is in fact highly volatile, particularly when the man in the White House likes to set bonfires.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementEvery few weeks, an email arrives from the Republican National Committee, requesting my attention to a matter of great national consequence. “Approval Poll Response: PENDING” is the subject line of the latest. “The President has asked us to reach out to some of our top supporters for a one-question poll,” it begins. “The President’s job performance has been ...” There are four possible responses: “great,” “good,” “O.K.” or “other.”“Thank you for your input, Friend,” the email concludes. “We’ll be sure to pass it along to President Trump.”AdvertisementAdvertisementHe is not the first modern president to obsess over these ratings, but the nature of his obsession is different. Presidents from Lyndon Johnson to George W. Bush spoke bluntly about approval as a means to an end. For Trump, approval seems to be the end. His primary pre-presidential business was, quite literally, being popular, and now that he is in the White House, mass approval is the one thing that is consistently denied to him. There is something oddly poignant about the R.N.C. email polls; they’re like the birthday card that a middle manager hustles the hourly employees to sign for a company president who everyone knows has just gone through a rough divorce.What’s most bizarre about this particular manifestation of Trump’s exhausting, relentless need for external affirmation, though, is how ill placed it is. No president has ever been so publicly consumed with his approval numbers. And no president has ever had less reason to care about them.We have George Gallup, the originator of the Gallup poll, to thank for this ambiguity. An Iowa-born journalism professor and advertising consultant, Gallup spent years pondering what question might best assess presidential performance — separating it, in the minds of poll respondents, from considerations like voting preference and personal affinity — before arriving in 1945 at the wording Gallup and other pollsters have used ever since. Frank Newport, Gallup’s current editor in chief, explains that the “approve or disapprove” question is expansive by design. “When you vote, you have an up or down choice on a candidate, right?” he told me. “You don’t have a nuanced choice.” Or, as Gallup himself put it in 1940, in a sort of civics-class koan, “the limitations and the shortcomings of the polls are the limitations and shortcomings of public opinion itself.”This rankled Daniel J. Boorstin, the conservative historian and social critic, who criticized Gallup in his 1962 book, “The Image.” Boorstin described public-opinion research as “a kind of pseudo-event, forced into existence for the primary purpose of being reported” — an unreal thing with real consequences. What “approval” measures in a presidency may be hard to pin down, but what it gets you is not: Higher numbers have historically meant more effective dealings with Congress — whose leaders read approval polls as a measure of their leverage with the president — and better chances of re-election.And yet there is a wealth of research showing that “approval” is largely, if not entirely, beyond a president’s control. In 2002, the political scientists Robert S. Erikson, Michael B. Mackuen and James A. Stimson found that more than half of the variance in a president’s approval ratings could be explained by either the performance of the national economy or by big events like international crises, assassination attempts and scandals — factors over which a president may not exert much influence at all. Jimmy Carter gained 20 points when Iranian student demonstrators occupied the United States Embassy in Tehran. Ronald Reagan picked up seven after being shot.None of this has dissuaded presidents from trying to influence their own approval ratings. Reagan was the first to bring a public-opinion expert, Richard Wirthlin, onto the White House team. Wirthlin’s firm went on to test public opinion for George H.W. Bush in the lead-up to the Persian Gulf war; Dick Cheney, at the time Bush’s defense secretary, would later grumble in his memoirs that Colin Powell, then the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “seemed more comfortable talking about poll numbers than he was recommending military options.” As the war approached its conclusion, crowds of supporters were ushered onto the White House lawn with signs trumpeting Bush’s approval rating: “WE ♥ GEORGE — 91%.”AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byGiven the triumph of contemporary conservatism, it may be time for liberals to take a look at the vulnerabilities of their own orthodoxies.Voters in red America are 44 percent less likely to be college graduates and 22 percent more likely to have served in the armed forces. Geographically speaking, red counties are virtually nonexistent on the West Coast and on the East Coast north of the Mason-Dixon line.Many Democrats continue to have little understanding of their own role — often inadvertent, an unintended consequence of well-meaning behavior — in creating the conditions that make conservatives willing to support Trump and the party he is leading.Consider some of the core features of our ideal liberal democracy: absolutely unfettered freedom and diversity; acceptance and promotion of multiculturalism; allowing retention of separate identities; maintenance of separate communities, lifestyles and values; permitting open criticism of leaders, authorities and institutions; unrestrained free expression (of what many will consider offensive/outrageous/unacceptable ideas); strict prohibitions on government intervention in ‘private’ moral choices.In fact, Stenner argues, these values are the subject of intense debate. They lie at the core of what divides America:These reflect some of the fundamental fault lines of human conflict and are unlikely ever to be resolved or settled because we can’t just be socialized or educated out of our stances on these issues, as they are the product of deep-seated, largely heritable predispositions that cause us to vary in our preference for and in our ability to cope with freedom and diversity, novelty and complexity, vs oneness and sameness.Not only are the values that the left takes for granted heatedly disputed in many sections of the country, the way many Democratic partisans assert that their values supplant or transcend traditional beliefs serves to mobilize the right.Stenner makes the point thatliberal democracy’s allowance of these things inevitably creates conditions of “normative threat,” arousing the classic authoritarian fears about threats to oneness and sameness, which activate those predispositions — about a third of most western populations lean toward authoritarianism — and cause the increased manifestation of racial, moral and political intolerance.I am quoting Stenner — and later in this column, the public policy analyst Eric Schnurer — at length because they both make arguments about complex ideas with precision and care.“Libertarians and/non-authoritarians,” Stenner writes,are likewise aroused and activated under these conditions, and move toward positions of greater racial, moral and political tolerance as a result. Which increases political polarization of the two camps, which further increases normative threat, and so it goes on. This is what I mean by the core elements of liberal democracy creating conditions that inevitably undermine it.How does the undermining process work?A system like our ideal liberal democracy, which does not place any constraints on critiques of leaders, authorities and institutions; and does not allow any suppression of ideas no matter how dangerous to the system or objectionable to its citizens; and does not permit itself to select who can come in, or stay, based on their acceptance/rejection of fundamental liberal democratic values, has both:(1) guaranteed perpetual generation of conditions of normative threat, and all the activation, polarization, and conflict that that produces, and(2) disallowed all means for protecting itself against that “authoritarian dynamic,” which otherwise might have included allowing: some selectivity in regard to the fundamental values of those who are allowed to come, and to stay; constraints on certain kinds of critiques of leaders, authorities and institutions; constraints on free speech that exclude racist or intolerant speech; some ability to write moral strictures into public policy to reflect traditional beliefs where the majority “draws the line.”If a liberal democracy were to allow those things, it would no longer be a liberal democracy. But if it does not allow those things, it is extremely difficult to protect itself from fundamental threats to its continued existence.Stenner’s analysis poses a strategic dilemma for liberalism and the Democratic Party. Insofar as Democrats seek to stem the conservative tide, a crucial factor will be their ability to increase their understanding of their own role in the process that has culminated in conservative dominance.Blue America spent the last eight years dictating both economic and cultural changes invalidating virtually every aspect of Red America. Liberals see all that as both righteous and benevolent — we’re both promoting better values and willing to help train them to be more like us.Schnurer elaborated on this line of thought in an email:The prototypical Trump voter sees a changing America leaving him behind; part of this is economic, part of it demographic, part cultural. I think liberals tend to see this as a thin cover for racism, a reflection of troglodyte viewpoints, and in any event unwarranted as the world these folks are resisting would be better even for them if only they’d let it, by giving up their benighted religious views, accepting job training in the new technologies, and preferably moving to one or the other coasts or at least the closest major city.Red and blue America often draw diametrically opposed conclusions from the same experiences and developments, Schnurer contends:I don’t think there’s much argument that the modern economy is killing off small towns, US-based manufacturing, the interior of the US generally, etc. There is, or could be, an argument as to whether that’s just the necessary functioning of larger economic forces, or whether there are political choices that have produced, or at least aided and abetted, those outcomes. In any event, while most of us in Blue World see these changes as beneficent, they have had devastating effects on the economies of “red” communities.Schnurer observes thatThis is a classic political problem of general benefit at the cost of specific individual harm. At a minimum, “we” — as a country but also as a self-styled progressive subset of that country — have given inadequate thought to those harms and how to ameliorate them; but I think you can also make the argument that we have exacerbated them.Long-term trends may be working in favor of the left, as the recent governor’s races in Virginia and New Jersey suggest, but liberals, Schnurer argues, are using policy to accelerate the process without determining the costs:For example, we could adopt protectionist policies, which of course we haven’t because both mainstream Democrats and Republicans see them as counterproductive in the long term; but we have also attempted more actively to steer the economy more quickly to the likely, proper, outcome by shifting national tax and spending priorities toward new energy technologies, and away from fossil fuels.Schnurer notes thatYou don’t have to buy the right’s “war on coal” rhetoric to accept that, even if that’s the direction the world is headed, anyway, hastening coal’s demise and shifting federal subsidy policy away from it and into alternative energy sources will have a negative economic effect on certain communities.In addition to the economic setbacks experienced in heavily Republican regions of the country, Schnurer, himself a liberal, argues that blue America has over the last decade declared war on the “red way of life.”He makes a case very similar to Stenner’s:The political, economic, and cultural triumph nationwide of a set of principles and realities essentially alien to large numbers of Americans is viewed as (a) being imposed upon them, and (b) overturning much of what they take for granted in their lives — and I don’t think they’re wrong about that. I think they’ve risen in angry revolt, and now intend to give back to the “elite” in the same terms that they’ve been given to. I don’t think this is good — in fact, I think it’s a very dangerous situation — but I think we need to understand it in order to responsibly address it.Do liberals in fact need to understand — or empathize with — their many antagonists, the men and women who are sharply critical of the liberal project?Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, observes that “believers in liberal democracy have unilaterally disarmed in the defense of the institution” by agreeing in many cases with the premise of the Trump campaign: “that the country is a hopeless swamp.” This left Democrats “defenseless when he proposed to drain it.”Where, Pinker asks,are the liberals who are willing to say that liberal democracy has worked? That environmental regulations have slashed air pollutants while allowing Americans to drive more miles and burn more fuel? That social transfers have reduced poverty rates fivefold? That globalization has allowed Americans to afford more food, clothing, TVs, cars, and air-conditioners? That international organizations have prevented nuclear war, and reduced the rate of death in warfare by 90 percent? That environmental treaties are healing the hole in the ozone layer?Pinker remains confident:Progress always must fight headwinds. Human nature doesn’t change, and the appeal of regressive impulses is perennial. The forces of liberalism, modernity, cosmopolitanism, the open society, and Enlightenment values always have to push against our innate tribalism, authoritarianism, and thirst for vengeance. We can even recognize these instincts in ourselves, even in Trump’s cavalier remarks about the rule of law.Pinker continues:Over the longer run, I think the forces of modernity prevail — affluence, education, mobility, communication, and generational replacement. Trumpism, like Brexit and European populism, are old men’s movements: support drops off sharply with age.Pinker is optimistic about the future. I hope he is right.The problem is that even if Pinker is right, his analysis does not preclude a sustained period in which the anti-democratic right dominates American politics. There is no telling how long it will be before the movement Trump has mobilized will have run its course. Nor can we anticipate — if and when Trumpism does implode — how extensive the damage will be that Pinker’s “forces of modernity” will have to repair.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIn recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”AdvertisementReich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.AdvertisementReich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reich’s proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate — about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. “It’s our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.”AdvertisementAs these examples suggest, the nonpartisan, above-the-fray conception of the common good that Reich proposes may be too high-minded to reinvigorate American public discourse in the way he wants. In the face of President Trump’s serial violations of democratic norms, it is tempting to appeal to Americans, whatever their party or political persuasion, to reaffirm certain principles that all can share. But such principles, if truly detached from debate about where they lead, are so abstract that they can only serve as hortatory fare for commencement addresses and the Fourth of July. The best hope for reviving the common good is to invigorate moral argument in the messy, contentious domain of democratic politics.Michael J. Sandel teaches political philosophy at Harvard and is the author, most recently, of “What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets.”We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »