AdvertisementSupported byMuch of the new business has come through “super PACs” and political nonprofit groups whose fund-raising has soared since the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision in 2010. While such groups were once a modest sideline to campaign and lobbying work, the new campaign spending rules have allowed wealthy donors and their entourages to displace campaign managers and party leaders as the leading political power center.More such business has come from private foundations and ideologically oriented media companies linked to donors like the Mercers, who have invested in websites, documentaries and other endeavors to battle traditional news organizations. They have also formed political advisory operations to steer their giving and promote their influence.The figures reveal the extent to which private political work has bolstered the financial fortunes of Trump aides, who have made millions of dollars from Republican and other conservative causes in recent years, according to an analysis of the disclosure forms by The New York Times after they were transformed into a computerized database by the Center for Public Integrity.For the Trump aides, one potential drawback is that they will now take government salaries, which for many will amount to a cut in pay as they refrain from outside work to avoid conflicts. When their time in the administration ends, however, they could find even more riches waiting for them.The arrangement has been especially lucrative for insiders and key operatives with links to the biggest donors, and those closest to Mr. Trump, despite his campaigning on an anti-establishment message and his disparagement of business as usual in Washington.The White House did not respond to a request for comment from the aides included in this article.The list of income sources for those in Mr. Trump’s White House reads like an encyclopedia of conservative wealth and influence. Many of Mr. Trump’s aides have earned money from right-leaning media organizations like Breitbart and Fox News, or from a firm set up by Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, to manage his speaking and television appearances. Several aides received payments from organizations backed by major conservative benefactors such as the Kochs or the Mercers. Others were paid for work on Republican campaigns, including Mr. Trump’s or that of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a onetime rival.Among the clients that paid her at least $5,000 were the Tea Party Patriots, a group founded in 2009 to oppose Mr. Obama’s health care and spending initiatives, and the Judicial Crisis Network, a nonprofit group that has spent millions of dollars, raised from wealthy donors, in an effort to reshape the federal court system.She advised nearly a dozen candidates on their campaigns, including Mr. Trump and Mike Pence, now the vice president. Ms. Conway also earned money from speaking appearances at conservative think tanks like the Alabama Policy Institute and the John Locke Foundation.Like many of her colleagues, Ms. Conway also profited from at least two Mercer endeavors: A super PAC called Keep the Promise, and Cambridge Analytica, which claims to provide “psychographic” profiles that can predict the political leanings of each American adult.The Mercers are major investors in Breitbart News, and the filings provide a kind of map to the family’s sprawling influence in Mr. Trump’s White House.Those who have worked with the father-daughter donor powerhouse have described their charity as having a political bent: to fix what they see as the mistakes of the Obama presidency. That has meant providing funding to institutions, nonprofit organizations and businesses that promote small government, lower taxes and undoing the welfare state.With his own links to Breitbart and the Government Accountability Institute, as well as other ventures, Mr. Bannon has especially close ties to the Mercers. He reported a financial stake worth $1 million to $5 million in Cambridge Analytica, a stake he is now seeking to sell.Citizens United, a conservative group that was the plaintiff in the landmark Supreme Court case of the same name, and is run by the political operative David Bossie, received $3.5 million from the Mercer Family Foundation between 2012 and 2014, according to the most recent public records. Mr. Bannon, Ms. Conway and Mr. McGahn all disclosed receiving pay from the group or its affiliates — in the case of Mr. Bannon, totaling $100,000.The disclosures also, for the first time, provide some visibility into how much Mr. Trump has been paying some of his most loyal employees, who have now moved with him to the White House.“This is an industry, a Washington industry, that is embedded into the political system, and the consultant class is making a fortune regardless of what views or candidates they represent,” Mr. Wertheimer said. “And it is a major factor in the cost of campaigns, and it is a group of people who are probably the biggest opponents of campaign finance reform in the system.”Reporting was contributed by Alexandra Stevenson, Nicholas Confessore, Jeremy Bowers and Sarah Cohen.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS