AdvertisementSupported byLondon Theater ReviewsThe result is an uneasy hybrid that will represent essential viewing for Rattigan completists even as it leaves others to await scenes in which Ms. Best’s unstoppable vivacity charges forward, leaving pretty much everyone else in her wake. The actress plays the sort of poshly spoken free spirit who lapses into French for no discernible reason, and she falls on copies of the English society magazine Tatler as if its gossipy contents were so much catnip.A dentist’s widow who is now the happy mistress of a wealthy cabinet minister (played by Anthony Head), Ms. Best’s Olivia finds her breezy existence challenged by the return to England of her hotheaded son, Michael (Edward Bluemel, tiresome). He is a professed leftist “progressive” who is happy to playact his appointed role as Hamlet if that means getting rid of the Claudius figure represented by Mr. Head’s titled steel magnate, Sir John.Will Olivia side with a lover whose social whirl she adores or a son whose generation she can’t quite seem to grasp? The quandary is played out across nearly three hours and a bewildering array of styles that tilt at times in the direction of Noël Coward, J. B. Priestley and flat-out farce, Mr. Head reaching a nadir of sorts when he is required for comic effect to bang his head in disbelief against the wall. Through it all, Ms. Best coos and purrs and even, on occasion, catches at the heart. She’s a force of nature in a production that feels not a little forced.Mr. Waters was last represented at the Donmar in 2015 with “Temple,” which told the story of the Occupy London movement from an unusual vantage point inside the Chapter House of St. Paul’s Cathedral while social tumult raged on the steps outside. “Limehouse” focuses on another inner sanctum — the kitchen of the onetime Labour foreign secretary, David Owen (a blustery Tom Goodman-Hill), and his American wife, Debbie (Nathalie Armin) — from where decisions are made that will affect the citizenry at large.“Limehouse” takes its title from the London quarter that is mostly fantastically trendy nowadays but that, back then, represented an adventuresome journey for the Owens’ intrepid guests. “Very far east,” notes Bill Rodgers (the sweet-faced Paul Chahidi), the senior politico who accompanies his mock-triumphant arrival by producing some “whiffy” — there’s a British adjective for you! — Camembert.Billed as a “fictionalized account of real events,” the play comes with an epilogue, spoken with the house lights up by Ms. Armin, whose character’s status as neither British nor a politician allows her to act as a choric figure of sorts. (Over the decades, Mrs. Owen has had a successful career of her own, as a literary agent.)But I’m not sure audiences need climactic finger-wagging to realize the relevance of a play whose characters are seen addressing the vexed issue of Europe — plus ça change — alongside the tactics of Britain’s female prime minister of the time.Roger Allam’s pungently played Roy Jenkins is heard pontificating on “the Stygian gloom” of Brussels, though his Continental discontent doesn’t keep him from knocking back the Château Lafite. Fine wine helps its devotees rise above the fray, and Mr. Allam is first among equals as the only one of the four S.D.P. founders no longer alive, however fully Mr. Jenkins’s signature speech impediment lingers: Debbie Owen’s macaroni and cheese gets commended as “wonderfully filling” but “somewhat wich.”Its good humor notwithstanding, Mr. Waters’s play pays serious obeisance to the ways in which, as Bill Rodgers puts it, you “conjure” a party into being. Will this not entirely synchronous foursome agree to — quite literally — come to the table? Suspense is generated on that front from the disappearance for a period of the liberal firebrand Shirley Williams (Debra Gillett), who has an appointment across town at the BBC and isn’t sure whether she might not be happier taking up a job offer from Harvard.When Mrs. Williams — for many years now a baroness — does return, bringing her unquenchable passion with her, one can only look on moist-eyed at an enterprise embarked upon in a spirit that was the exact antithesis of idleness. Even Ms. Best’s frothy Olivia would drink to that.Conversely, I kept an eye longingly on the exit at “Seventeen,” the excruciating Australian play that has set up at the Lyric Hammersmith in West London through April 8. The playwright Matthew Whittet’s portrait of teenagers on the fraught cusp of adulthood was first seen two summers ago at the Belvoir playhouse in Sydney, Australia, with a different cast but the same director, Anne-Louise Sarks.But for the conceit to hold requires writing that seems in some way connected to real life in ways that calling someone “as sexy as diarrhea,” at least to this none-too-cosseted ear, do not. Nor can one commend an ensemble, almost all of whom bellow their lines as if somehow being young again conferred its own invitation to run riot.The welcome exception to the wearying rule is Diana Hardcastle, playing the newly 18-year-old Jess, sister to the antic Mike (Michael Feast) and a possible amour of the smitten Tom (Roger Sloman). “Seventeen” ends with these hesitant lovebirds on the swings, looking toward a future that by rights will include many a less coy and mawkish play.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSStormy Daniels: Timeline of a Trump ScandalThe Happiest Guy in the WorldWatch Police Enter the Las Vegas Gunman’s RoomDonald Trump’s Lewd Comments About WomenNorthern India Hit By Deadly Dust StormColin Kaepernick: ‘Love Is at the Root of Our Resistance’‘His Hands Were All Over Me’São Paulo Tower Collapses in FireTrump’s Catchphrase: ‘We’ll See’Swedish MeatballsAdvertisementThe Northside Festival has grown from a sprawling, centerless but small affair into a sprawling, slightly more centered and improbably huge event — Brooklyn’s version of SXSW. From Wednesday, June 7, to Sunday, there will be an innovation series, with speakers from the worlds of new media, entertainment, marketing, activism and politics, including Mayor Bill de Blasio. And as always, there will be music, so much of it that Northside is beginning to resemble the old CMJ festival, which was for many years the most important accounting of musical taste in the city.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThere have been millions of dollars in campaign spending. Churlish television ads. Allegations of ignoring sexual misconduct complaints.The deal gave the Democrats a chance to sweep the Legislature and governor’s office. There was just one hitch: two Senate seats that had previously been occupied by Democrats will be decided on Tuesday in special elections.AdvertisementWith such high stakes, the Democratic challenger, Shelley B. Mayer, an assemblywoman from Yonkers, is now engaged in a heated clash with Julie Killian, a moderate Republican and former councilwoman and deputy mayor in the City of Rye.AdvertisementIn a county where Democrats outnumber Republicans by two-to-one, the presidency of Donald J. Trump has loomed large in the race. Ms. Mayer’s campaign is running ads in which Ms. Killian is made to look like a Trump clone. In an interview, Ms. Killian declined to address Mr. Trump’s record or rhetoric, saying she had been too focused on her race to follow the news out of Washington.“The perspective I want to bring to Albany is that of a mother, chemical engineer, finance person and community advocate involved in substance abuse and mental health issues,” she said. “It’s my on-the-ground experience that has shaped my views on the issues.”A mother of five, Ms. Killian, 57, studied engineering in college and, after earning a master’s in business, worked in finance. In 2012, she created a coalition to fight the opioid epidemic, which claimed the lives of several young people in Rye in recent years alone.At a time of national reckoning for women who were victims of sexual abuse, Ms. Killian’s campaign has sought to show that Ms. Mayer dropped the ball in addressing sexual misconduct complaints when, before running for the Assembly, she served as legal counsel to the Senate Democrats.In recent debates, Ms. Mayer, 64, acknowledged that she met with one of the women, and learned about the other incident through the woman’s boyfriend. She followed the protocol in place at the time, which was to refer allegations to the secretary of the Senate, a political appointee.Advertisement“In both cases, I went to the secretary of the Senate and I made the case that they need to do more,” she said in a debate held in the studios of WRNN-TV on Tuesday. “They failed to do so. ”In an interview, Ms. Mayer said that the Assembly has a rule that requires mandatory reporting of any allegation of sexual misconduct to an outside law firm. “I believe the policy in the Senate was very flawed then, and the Senate Republicans just adopted it again,” she said.Ms. Killian has nonetheless seized on the report in an effort to cast doubt on Ms. Mayer’s feminist credentials. “She’s no champion of women,” Ms. Killian said. “She had the opportunity to help them. She was the most senior woman in the Senate Democrats at the time.”Some newly minted activists are not buying the portrayal. “There are two females in this race, but only one is pro-woman,” said Jenny Geer, who leads a progressive group called Blue Blast in Larchmont and Mamaroneck and who has canvassed for Ms. Mayer. “I think it’s convenient for Julie Killian to piggyback on the #MeToo movement and exploit it.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For her part, Ms. Mayer, who has championed legislation on gun safety, voting rights and redressing sexual abuse, expressed skepticism of Ms. Killian’s self-proclaimed centrist politics, saying she was trying to appeal to the county’s leftward tilt in the age of Trump. “I think she has become a moderate now,” she said. “She has not disavowed this president or anything he has done.”“It’s crucial for us in Westchester,” said Douglas A. Colety, chairman of the Westchester County Republican Committee, “and it’s crucial for control of the State Senate in Albany.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported by“I was like, ‘Oh my God,’” said Mr. Alatassi, 37, who was born and grew up in Syria and came to the United States nearly 20 years ago. “Just replace the English words with Arabic words, and you have a Syrian cabinet meeting. I left the Middle East for a reason.”Waves of immigrants from around the world have transformed Houston into one of America’s most diverse and most international cities. They fled countries with dysfunctional governments, oppressive rulers, shoestring democracies, ethnic warfare and mass violence, and have found themselves rubbing elbows and bumpers in a wealthy Texas city where potholes, traffic, mosquitoes and pension reform are some of the biggest concerns. They are just as opinionated about America in the Trump era as any talk-show talking head, but their analyses, like their accents, are their own.For some Houstonians whose origins are in countries far away, what they see in American politics baffles and disturbs them, as elements of the world they left behind seem to echo back to them in the news from Washington, as Mr. Alatassi discovered watching the cabinet meeting. And yet others reacted optimistically and emphasized their belief that the current political turmoil in this country did not compare to the failures and problems of the countries they fled.Steve Le was born in South Vietnam and was 7 years old when he boarded a ship the day before the fall of Saigon in 1975 with his family and other refugees. They resettled in Houston, and Mr. Le became a family physician and the third consecutive Vietnamese-American to represent District F on the Houston City Council. Mr. Le, a Republican who speaks with a subtle Texas twang, said he has never seen America more deeply divided, but added that nothing happening now compares to the world his parents knew in Vietnam. Watching the testimony of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, was but one example, he said.“In how many other countries can you call the top elected official in the country a liar and get away with it?” said Mr. Le, 50. “Although our democratic process looks dirty to some people, in the end it all comes out clean. We continue to be the longest-standing constitutional nation in the entire history of Earth, and it is because our forefathers designed that constitution so uniquely in balancing out the powers.”The president’s cabinet meeting bothered Yohannes Tesfagibir, too.Mr. Tesfagibir, 36, came to the United States eight years ago from his native country of Eritrea, an East African nation. Isaias Afwerki, Eritrea’s only president since it won independence in the 1990s, rules a country known as the North Korea of Africa, where national elections have never been held and young people are forced to work for extended periods in a national service program. Last year, a United Nations commission of inquiry said the national service program amounted to a form of slavery and accused the leaders of Eritrea of other crimes against humanity in a report denounced by government officials.The scene in Washington reminded him of a scene in Eritrea. “It’s reminiscent of the one-man show, everyone working for the president instead of working for the country,” Mr. Tesfagibir said of the Trump cabinet session. “It was very suspicious.”Still, although Mr. Tesfagibir said he was worried about the direction of the country and called Mr. Trump “a bully,” he said he never loses perspective.“The reason I’m talking to you now is because I’m free,” he said.Immigrants and refugees differed on drawing parallels between the political turmoil in America with the turmoil of their home countries.“The whole talk from Trump about, ‘I’m going to solve their problems, somebody else is the cause of the problems, and if you’re not with me, then you’re not patriotic’ — that’s the Middle East,” Mr. Alatassi said.But M. J. Khan, a Pakistani-American businessman, Republican and former councilman who became the first Muslim-American to win a seat on the city council in 2003, said there was no comparison politically or culturally between Trump-era America and the Middle East. Having the simple freedom to speak your mind and to pray, shop and live as you wish made any comparison moot.“We used to get something called a ration card,” Mr. Khan said of growing up in Pakistan. “Food was rationed off, so every family would get a ration card based on how many people you have in the family, and you can only get that much food. There’s no freedom of any kind. You cannot go and talk against any person in authority at all. Over here, I can go to the city council next Tuesday and blast out the mayor.”Mr. Khan, 67, the president of the Islamic Society of Greater Houston, said he is as outraged as anyone else on Capitol Hill over Russian meddling in the 2016 election.“It makes me angry as an American,” Mr. Khan said. “The beauty of America was, and still is, fair and impartial elections. I’ve lived in a society where that was not the case. In spite of all the challenges we have, this is still by far the best system, the best society, the best country, you name it. Maybe because we have had it so good we are spoiled and we expect better.”The political pulse of Houston’s global village is, if nothing else, intricately nuanced. With Russia dominating the headlines and drawing the ire of many Americans, the executive director of Houston’s Russian Cultural Center had a clear point to make: She was appalled at the unrestrained hostility toward Mr. Trump on display in popular culture and in the news media.“I spent 27 years here and I never hear anything in the media so anti-presidential, never, ever in my life,” Ms. Grinblat said. “If this is O.K. to make a play in a New York park how they killed the president and everybody laughed and think this is funny, and if this is O.K. to publish information like that, some crazy people take it as a recipe to act.”Ms. Grinblat, who serves as the editor in chief of a Russian-language newspaper called Our Texas, said the media coverage was unbalanced in both Russia and the United States, largely pro-Putin there, anti-Trump here. “The situation is going more and more similar to Russia,” she said.Leopold Kazadi, 39, a community college student from the Democratic Republic of Congo, also spoke of the media portrayals of Mr. Trump. He said he watched late-night comics poke fun at the president with a kind of deep patriotism. He said he had friends in Congo who went to prison for demonstrating against President Joseph Kabila.“Here I see a lot of comedians make a joke about the president,” said Mr. Kazadi, whose relatives still live in Congo. “People can speak out. In Congo, I can say it’s like ‘esclave.’ I say ‘esclave’ in French. People are like slaves.” He added, “My mom tells me all the time, ‘I’m so glad you’re over there.’”Manny Fernandez reported from Houston and David Montgomery from Austin.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAs the forces of reaction outpace movements predicated on the ideal of progress, and as traditional norms of political competition are tossed aside, it’s clear that the internet and social media have succeeded in doing what many feared and some hoped they would. They have disrupted and destroyed institutional constraints on what can be said, when and where it can be said and who can say it.Even though in one sense President Trump’s victory in 2016 fulfilled conventional expectations — because it prevented a third straight Democratic term in the White House — it also revealed that the internet and its offspring have overridden the traditional American political system of alternating left-right advantage. They are contributing — perhaps irreversibly — to the decay of traditional moral and ethical constraints in American politics.Such a regime, in his view, would keep the trappings of democracy, including seemingly free elections, while leaders would control the election process, the media and the scope of permissible debate. “What you get is a country that is de facto less free.”a great thing for getting additional layers of transparency. It was true for Donald Trump as it was for Bernie Sanders; the internet ended smoke-filled back rooms, deal-cutting moved from back room to a true campaign, with a more general population. Maybe an unwashed population, but that’s the beauty of American politics with 350 million people.Goodstein noted, however, “a horrible development on the internet” last year:In this cycle you saw hate speech retweeted and echoed, by partisan hacks, the Jewish star used in neo-Nazi posts. There is no governing body, so I think it’s going to get worse, more people jumping into the gutter.According to Persily, the Trump campaign was “totally unprecedented in its breaking of established norms of politics.” He argues thatthis type of campaign is only successful in a context in which certain established institutions — particularly, the mainstream media and political party organizations — have lost most of their power, both in the United States and around the world.The Trump campaign is the most recent beneficiary of the collapse of once-dominant organizations:The void these eroding institutions have left was filled by an unmediated, populist nationalism tailor-made for the internet age. We see it in the rise of the Five Star Movement in Italy and the Pirate Party in Iceland. We see it in the successful use of social media in the Brexit referendum, in which supporters were seven times more numerous on Twitter and five times more active on Instagram. And we see it in the pervasive fears of government leaders throughout Europe, who worried well before the American election that Russian propaganda and other internet tactics might sway their electorates.The influence of the internet is the latest manifestation of the weakening of the two major American political parties over the past century, with the Civil Service undermining patronage, the rise of mass media altering communication, campaign finance law empowering donors independent of the parties, and the ascendance of direct primaries gutting the power of party bosses to pick nominees.Neither party appeared to have a mechanism of internal correction. Neither could muster the wise elders to steer a more conventional course. Neither could use its congressional leadership to regain control of the party through its powers of governance. Neither could lay claim to financial resources that would compel a measure of candidate loyalty. Neither could even exert influence though party endorsements.The result:The parties proved hollow vehicles that offered little organizational resistance to capture by outsiders. And what was captured appeared little more than a brand, certainly not the vibrant organizations that are heralded as the indispensable glue of democratic politics.Issacharoff was even more concerned about the future of democratic politics in a talk, “Anxieties of Democracy,” that he gave in February at the University of Texas law school.“We are witnessing a period of deep challenge to the core claims of democracy to be the superior form of political organization of civilized peoples,” he told his audience:The current moment of democratic uncertainty draws from four central institutional challenges, each one a compromise of how democracy was consolidated over the past few centuries. First, the accelerated decline of political parties and other institutional forms of engagement; second, the weakness of the legislative branches; third, the loss of a sense of social cohesion; and fourth, the decline in democratic state competence.In a phone interview, Issacharoff cited the emergence of internet-based methods of communication as a major contributing factor in the deterioration of political parties.“Technology has overtaken one of the basic functions you needed political parties for in the past, communication with voters,” he said. “Social media has changed all of that, candidates now have direct access through email, blogs and Twitter,” along with Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and other platforms.Teams of hackers, operating with varying levels of resources and at various distances from the central chain of command, had a lot of license to poke and prod and see what they could come up with. Some of these people found it easier to do certain kinds of things — like break into Podesta’s emails — than they had expected. Having obtained a windfall, they were then given license to push it even further.The question now is who benefits more from the digital revolution and the ubiquity of social media, the left or the right?It seems to me this is not a question about ideological placement but more about organizational or movement strategy. As long as I am in opposition, the payoff is higher in investing in digital infrastructure and thereby channeling the activities and enthusiasm of my supporters than when in power. So I would expect a re-emergence of political activity, for example in the form of alternative news sources, on the liberal side in the coming years.By qualitatively expanding the pool of participants, social media may thus be substantially contributing to some of the vivid examples of political disruption that we have witnessed over the past few years across and beyond the Western world: from the spread of protest movements to the sudden rise of new parties such as the Five Star Movement in Italy and Podemos in Spain, from the ascent of populist leaders all across Europe to electoral upheavals such as the Brexit referendum and the surge of Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump in the United States 2016 Presidential elections.The internet is the first medium in history that has native support for groups and conversation at the same time. Whereas the phone gave us the one-to-one pattern, and television, radio, magazines, books, gave us the one-to-many pattern, the internet gives us the many-to-many pattern.Shirky continues:The second big change is that, as all media gets digitized, the internet also becomes the mode of carriage for all other media, meaning that phone calls migrate to the internet, magazines migrate to the internet, movies migrate to the internet. And that means that every medium is right next door to every other medium. Put another way, media is increasingly less just a source of information, and it is increasingly more a site of coordination, because groups that see or hear or watch or listen to something can now gather around and talk to each other as well.And the third big change, according to Shirky, is that members of the former audiencecan now also be producers and not consumers. Every time a new consumer joins this media landscape a new producer joins as well, because the same equipment — phones, computers — let you consume and produce. It’s as if, when you bought a book, they threw in the printing press for free; it’s like you had a phone that could turn into a radio if you pressed the right buttons.There is good reason to think that the disruptive forces at work in the United States — as they expand the universe of the politically engaged and open the debate to millions who previously paid little or no attention — may do more to damage the left than strengthen it. In other words, just as the use of negative campaign ads and campaign finance loopholes to channel suspect contributions eventually became routine, so too will be the use of social media to confuse and mislead the electorate.Of course, this problem goes much deeper than the internet. Sam Greene of King’s College London put it this way in an email:Our politics are vulnerable to nefarious influences — whether of the Kremlin variety or the Breitbart variety — not because our information landscape is open and fluid, but because voters’ perceptions have become untethered from reality. For reasons that are both complex and debatable, very many voters have stopped seeing government as a tool for the production of the common good, and have instead turned to politicians (and others) who at least make them feel good. Thus, the news we consume has become as much about emotion and identity as about facts. That’s where the vulnerability comes in, and its roots are in our politics — not in the internet.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe early interest in “A Higher Loyalty” is comparable to the advance buzz for “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” Michael Wolff’s exposé of the current administration, which was published earlier this year. Mr. Wolff’s book also hit the top of the Amazon best-seller list before its release, and the publishing house and book sellers were unprepared for the demand.Mr. Comey stoked anticipation for “A Higher Loyalty” by responding to Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday. “Mr. President, the American people will hear my story very soon. And they can judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not,” he said. In a statement, Macmillan said the book would “explore what good, ethical leadership looks like.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementA university spokesman, Jim Tranquada, said Professor Boesche died in his sleep. No cause of death was given. The professor had been treated for rheumatoid arthritis since childhood and had undergone numerous surgeries throughout his life.He had recently announced that he would retire after 40 years. Last Sunday, at the university’s commencement ceremonies, he received a standing ovation.In 2010, when reporters asked Mr. Obama to name his favorite college class, he replied: “I had a wonderful political science class. I still remember the name of the professor, Roger Boesche, at Occidental College.”He added, “It sparked my general interest in politics.”Mr. Obama transferred from Occidental to Columbia University after his sophomore year and earned a law degree from Harvard. He invited Professor Boesche to the White House in 2009. He was “a wonderful, wonderful teacher,” Mr. Obama said.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Soon after arriving, he led efforts to have the university sever business ties with South Africa while it was ruled by its apartheid government. Students twice voted him Occidental’s best teacher, and his fellow teachers chose him as faculty president in the 1990s.AdvertisementAn expert on political theory and history, Professor Boesche published several books, including “Theories of Tyranny: From Plato to Arendt” and “The Strange Liberalism of Alexis de Tocqueville.”He learned he had rheumatoid arthritis at 15, and after he endured more than a dozen surgeries, he said, one doctor told him not to expect to live past 60. He used a wheelchair in his later years. He and his wife nonetheless visited 120 countries, he said, and were collaborating on a travel book.He is survived by his wife and their daughter, Kelsey Boesche.Just as Mr. Obama was asked about Professor Boesche, Professor Boesche was asked about Mr. Obama. He recalled the day the future president came to him and asked why he had received a B in political theory instead of an A. He had a ready answer:“I said, ‘Well, frankly, I think you’re really brilliant, but you don’t work hard enough.’”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byNEW DELHI — Shobha Magdolna Friedmann Nehru, a Hungarian Jew who narrowly escaped the Holocaust, married into India’s leading political family and witnessed religious and ethnic violence convulsing both her native and adopted countries, died on Tuesday at her home in the Himalayan foothills. She was 108.Her death was confirmed by her son Ashok.Mrs. Nehru was known by her Hungarian nickname, Fori, but did not often speak about her background. After marrying the Indian diplomat Braj Kumar Nehru in 1935, she took the name Shobha (which was selected by her in-laws), dressed in saris and was so thoroughly assimilated that acquaintances often took her for a pale-skinned Kashmiri Pandit, like the Nehrus themselves.Mrs. Nehru typically stayed away from political matters, but she took the unusual step of confronting Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, her close friend and cousin by marriage, when she believed that the state of emergency Mrs. Gandhi declared in 1975 had too severely rolled back human rights in India.She later recalled presenting Mrs. Gandhi with a list of men who said they had been forced to undergo vasectomies during a coercive mass sterilization campaign spearheaded by Mrs. Gandhi’s son, Sanjay. Expecting to encounter resistance from the prime minister, she had asked each man for his telephone number.“I said, ‘Indu, you know I never talk to you about politics, never, no,’” Mrs. Nehru said in an interview with Indian state television. “‘Please look at this — these are all complaints about sterilization of young boys and old men. You know yourself that there is no need to sterilize. Why?’ She listened, looked at me. ‘But.’ What but?”Mrs. Nehru’s husband, in his own memoir, reflected that virtually nobody — including himself — was willing to take the risk of alienating Mrs. Gandhi, who resented any criticism of her son. He said his wife was less cautious, and “certainly on more intimate terms with Indira Gandhi than I was.”“I guess she was like that,” Ashok Nehru said. “She felt she had to get the truth across to her. It was a close family relationship, not a political relationship. She felt free enough to do that.”Mrs. Nehru was 90 when she asked an Oxford classmate of her son’s, the British historian Martin Gilbert, to suggest some reading material on the history of the Jews. Mr. Gilbert wrote that he was perplexed by the inquiry, having always seen her as “an Indian woman,” until she recounted the story of her childhood in Budapest.“Auntie Fori wanted to learn the history of the people to whom she belonged, but from whom, 67 years earlier, she had moved away, to the heat and dust and challenges of India,” Mr. Gilbert wrote in “Letters to Auntie Fori: The 5,000-Year History of the Jewish People and Their Faith,” published in 2002.She was born on Dec. 5, 1908, into a prosperous, assimilated Jewish family that had changed its surname from Friedmann to the less Jewish-sounding Forbath. Her mother’s family, Mr. Gilbert wrote, was one of the few Jewish families licensed, under the Austro-Hungarian empire, to use the aristocratic prefix “von.” She rarely visited a synagogue except to collect her father after services.“She used to say, ‘Both my sister and I didn’t believe in all this stuff,’” Ashok Nehru recalled. “She said they would stand outside the synagogue, stamping their feet in the cold.”An anti-Semitic tide was rising in Hungary, and the family was forced by law to revert to the name Friedmann. In 1919, hoping to stave off a Communist revolution, right-wing mobs roamed the streets, killing Jews.“Once a week my father would travel to the villages to get food,” she told Mr. Gilbert. “He had a house on Lake Balaton. One summer we went there — by train — and I saw people hanging from trees. It was terrible for us children to look at.”By the time she was 20, strict quotas had been introduced for Jewish students in Hungarian universities, and her parents sent her to the London School of Economics. There she met B. K. Nehru, a member of a distinguished Kashmiri family, whose cousin Jawaharlal was already a leader of the Indian independence movement (and would later become India’s first prime minister).Her parents were skeptical of the match, Mr. Nehru recalled in his memoir: “How could their beautiful and lovely daughter marry a black man in a distant country of which they know nothing, and who, by his own confession, belonged to a family of jailbirds?”His parents were skeptical as well. But when the two sets of parents met in Budapest, there was a sudden thaw, Mrs. Nehru told Mr. Gilbert.“They were sitting in the sitting room,” she said. “I was crying in my bedroom. My future mother-in-law had to go to the loo. She came by my room — saw me crying. She said, ‘We must let them do what they want to do.’”The Hungarian bride stepped off the ship in a sari and never looked back.As part of a countrywide tour, she was taken by her future mother-in-law to the prison where Jawaharlal Nehru was being held by the British. Seeing that she was in tears, he later sent her a gently chastening letter, informing her: “Nehrus don’t cry in public. They keep a stiff upper lip.”Meanwhile, her relatives and friends in Hungary were scattering. Her father was saved by his German housekeeper; her brother, an officer in the Hungarian Army, swam across the Danube to Czechoslovakia; her best friend drove across the border with her son hidden in the trunk of her car.She was busy with her own crises in India. As partition approached, Delhi was flooded with refugees: Hindus who had been pushed out of Pakistan, Muslims who were boarding trains for Pakistan, mobs pumped with murderous rage on both sides. She learned, after she had helped families crowd onto one such train, that everyone aboard had been dragged off and killed while crossing Punjab.“Can you imagine the horror?” she told Mr. Gilbert. “For several days we sent no train.”For the newly arrived refugees, she began an employment campaign, opening a shop to sell the handicrafts of refugee women that grew into a vast network, the Central Cottage Industries Emporium.She would not return to Hungary until 1949, along with three sons who had never seen her in anything but a sari.“She used to go out every day, to meet her friends,” her son Ashok, who accompanied her on that trip, recalled. “Many of them had disappeared. Many had been raped by the Russians or killed by the Germans. They were harrowing tales. I remember her coming back crying.”B. K. Nehru died in 2001. In addition to her son Ashok, Mrs. Nehru is survived by two other sons, Aditya and Anil; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.As the wife of a high-level dignitary, Mrs. Nehru moved from Washington, to the northeastern state of Assam, to London, but thoughts of Hungary’s Jews never entirely left her. She told Mr. Gilbert that at official receptions, she could not bring herself to shake hands with the German ambassador.“I have a feeling of guilt,” she said. “I wasn’t there. I was safe. The guilt feeling is still with me. Why should I not have suffered?”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byWhy is immigration such a problem for the Democratic Party?In the fall of 2015, as the presidential campaign began to heat up, Hillary Clinton broke with the Obama administration over its ongoing deportation of undocumented immigrants.I think we have to go back to being a much less harsh and aggressive enforcer. We need to, of course, take care of felons and violent people. I mean, that goes without saying. But I have met too many people in our country who were upright, productive people who maybe had some, you know, minor offense. Like, you know, maybe they were — arrested for speeding or they had some kind of — you know, one incident of drunk driving, something like that 25 years ago.Clearly, Clinton’s attack on Obama’s relatively stringent deportation policy was devised to maximize Hispanic turnout in the 2016 election.Did the strategy work? The evidence is mixed.In any analysis of the 2016 vote, it is difficult to separate the issues of immigration and free trade. In an October 2016 report, Pew found that Trump voters were decisively more hostile to both free trade agreements and immigration than the general public, and much more hostile than Clinton supporters.This data demonstrates a key element in the politics of immigration.individuals who pose a clear risk to national security; serious felons, repeat offenders, or individuals with a lengthy criminal record of any kind; known gang members or other individuals who pose a clear danger to public safety; and individuals with an egregious record of immigration violations, including those with a record of illegal re-entry and those who have engaged in immigration fraud.On the other hand, with an eye to the Hispanic vote and immigration supporters, the administration called for “prosecutorial discretion,” meaning the relaxation of enforcement, if not the ending of enforcement altogether, in the case of undocumented immigrants in the following categories:Veterans and members of the U.S. armed forces; long-time lawful permanent residents; minors and elderly individuals; individuals present in the United States since childhood; pregnant or nursing women; victims of domestic violence, trafficking, or other serious crimes; individuals who suffer from a serious mental or physical disability; and individuals with serious health conditions.Obama’s policies produced results — particularly the administration’s success in deporting those with serious criminal records — that served him well in the 2012 election and, in all likelihood, would ordinarily have worked for the Democratic candidate in 2016.But in the 2016 election, Clinton was under strong pressure from immigration advocacy groups to move to a significantly more liberal stance than the position Obama had adopted.This wasn’t just Clinton’s doing, of course. For the past fifty years, the Democratic Party has been the moving force behind rights movements generally, including, prominently, immigrant rights. Over that same time period, the Republican Party has been, and still is, the political arm of those opposed to the expansion of civil rights. This division has been a mixed blessing for both parties.The political advantage of pro-rights positioning for the Democrats is that it has put the party at the forefront of social and cultural movements that have steadily gained public acceptance. The payoff was evident in Bill Clinton’s victories in 1992 and 1996 and in Obama’s in 2008 and 2012.The political disadvantage emerges when a majority of voters see the Democratic Party as too far out in front of the electorate — as the proponent of new rights that do not yet have majority support. Republicans reaped the benefits of Democratic overreach in the 1980 election of Ronald Reagan; the “wave” midterm elections of 1994, 2010 and 2014; and the Nov. 8 election of Donald Trump.I asked a number of political operatives and election analysts for their views on these volatile issues. There was no consensus.Steve Murphy, a Democratic campaign consultant, argues that the power of anti-immigrant messages will be short-lived:Trump and other Republicans, he wrote, aresimply going for a higher percentage of white votes with bigotry toward ALL people of color. America is headed toward majority minority status and these Republicans are simply betting on a white backlash. Last year they got it with a record percentage of the white vote. Will it continue to grow? History says these racist waves eventually crash on the shoals of decency.Others disagreed.Simon Rosenberg, president and founder of NDN (formerly the New Democratic Network), a center-left think tank in Washington, has his own argument:Democrats will have a hard time winning this debate unless we acknowledge people’s legitimate concerns about having a functioning border and keeping people safe. Countering Trump will require us to lean into Obama’s success at halting the unauthorized flow into the country, and preventing foreign fighter terror attacks on US soil, We can be for legalizing the 11 million and more generous immigration policies while also being for a strong border and counterterrorism efforts. They aren’t mutually exclusive and shouldn’t be seen that way.Then, addressing the 2016 campaign, Rosenberg said:The Clinton campaign did not adequately rebut, or even really address, the xenophobic open borders/weak on terror arguments Trump made, and I think it hurt her particularly in the parts of the country where immigrants haven’t been settling in large numbers.Nolan McCarty, a political scientist at Princeton, put it this way:Purely in terms of politics and strategy, the Democrats have played immigration badly. They have allowed their position to be associated with open borders and sanctuary cities. They have based their opposition to the immigration restrictionists in terms of identity politics rather the economic benefits of well-managed immigration. This has caused them to be deaf to concerns that many voters have about the effects of immigration on wages and public services. While I do not think the evidence shows immigration has these alleged harms, the Democrats have to do better than dismiss all opposition to immigration as racism.McCarty specifically disputed the argument that Clinton’s lenient position was a net plus because it was crucial in mobilizing Hispanic voters.It was probably her underperformance in mobilizing African-Americans that hurt her most, and they are generally the group least enthusiastic about open door immigration policies.Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U., took a similar but broader view in disagreeing with Clinton’s immigration strategy:Political thinkers going back to Hobbes have noted that people crave safety and will give up many freedoms to a strong leader or state if it can deliver safety. In the 1970s and 1980s, the Democrats were seen as being on the side of those accused of crime – they reflexively sided with the accused, to defend their rights and fight systemic prejudice. This made them easy targets for the Republicans, who became the party of law and order under Nixon and Reagan.Now, in Haidt’s view, adoption of a very liberal immigration stance carries substantial liabilities:In these times of heightened fear of ISIS attacks and slow economic growth, if you are seen to favor open borders, or to not be concerned about illegal immigration, you will be an easy target for the party of law and order.It is, however, possible that Trump’s excesses will revive support for an immigration policy somewhere between Obama’s and Clinton’s.Adam Bonica, a political scientist at Stanford, said that in looking toward the futureeverything points to a strategic advantage for the Democrats in promoting immigration and the core values of decency and inclusiveness that their base stands for.I asked Marc Farinella, a former political consultant and the executive director of the Project on Political Reform at the University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy, about the direction of the debate going forward, and he wrote back:Trump has left the Democrats an enormous amount of running room on this issue. From a strictly strategic perspective, all Democrats have to do to capitalize politically is sound more compassionate and stand up against excessive government oppression.In the process, the partycould also reap additional political rewards by giving voice to Americans’ desire for fairness and concerns about cheating and safety.Farinella added that Democrats would benefit politically by making itclear that while they oppose amnesty, they do support a path to citizenship for long-time, law-abiding and productive undocumented residents that has real work and assimilation requirements, and recognize that we do have to have efforts to identify and remove violent criminals and improve border security.Speaking exclusively in terms of the politics of the issue, all they’ll have to do is sound reasonable, humane and compassionate.Farinella’s analysis sounds logical, but after an election that gave the White House to Donald Trump, the argument that victory will go to the candidate who sounds “reasonable, humane and compassionate” is no longer persuasive.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS