AdvertisementSupported byPeter Baker, the chief White House correspondent for The New York Times, had a problem. He was hosting a party whose guests included a bipartisan group of former White House staffers, and there wasn’t enough ice. While he was driving to the store, his phone rang. It was his wife, the journalist Susan Glasser. “Don’t worry, I’m getting the ice,” he told her. “No, no, no, you don’t understand,” she said. “The president just fired the F.B.I. director.”He returned, bag of ice in hand, to a room full of White House veterans, Democrat and Republican, stunned by the news. “It was striking to have all these people, very experienced people in Washington, there in that moment,” he said, “mouths agape, trying to process what had just happened and what it might mean.” He excused himself from his own party and ran upstairs to write.For the journalists who have covered the first year of Donald J. Trump’s presidency, such episodes have come to be expected. “It’s relentless, the unpredictability of it,” said Elisabeth Bumiller, the Washington bureau chief. “I knew it would be really wild and different, but I expected him to be somewhat different than the candidate Trump, and he really hasn’t been.”“I think he just fundamentally doesn’t understand what the White House press corps does,” added the White House correspondent Maggie Haberman, “because the press he’s used to interacting with” — business, celebrity and tabloid coverage — “is so different.”The White House has settled into more of a rhythm in recent months, according to several Times journalists who cover it, a shift they attributed in part to personnel changes — particularly the replacement of Mr. Spicer with Sarah Huckabee Sanders and of Reince Priebus, the former chief of staff, with John F. Kelly. The bureau, too, has adjusted. In response to the president’s early-morning Twitter habit, for example, reporters and editors are on duty at 6 each morning. And the bureau’s staff has grown from about 70 people in November 2016 to more than 100 now.Still, much of the unpredictability that has characterized this administration cannot be compensated for — it is a function of the president himself. “There isn’t some secret sauce to covering him,” said Ms. Haberman. “He’s incredibly unusual. He’d never run for office before and he won the presidency. This is a strange moment in history. He has no familiarity with the government that he oversees. I cannot describe how strange this all is. Sometimes you just have to show and not tell.”Although Mr. Trump has avoided traditional news conferences, he has developed a habit of stopping to speak with reporters on the White House lawn before boarding Marine One — and of going off-script at events, as he did in October, when an appearance with Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, turned into a freewheeling 45-minute question-and-answer session. And then there are, of course, the tweets.The result, Mr. Shear said, is that despite the anarchic nature of covering Mr. Trump, “we know so much more about what this president is thinking at any given moment than we ever did with Obama. Just because he wears it on his sleeve, and he tells us.”That includes Mr. Trump’s professed feelings about the “failing New York Times,” as he often calls it. “I think he wants validation, and that he feels angry when he doesn’t feel like he’s getting the respect he deserves from the paper,” Mr. Baker said.“It’s all politics,” Ms. Bumiller said. “We’re sort of amused by it now.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS