AdvertisementSupported byLondon Theater ReviewsThe result is an uneasy hybrid that will represent essential viewing for Rattigan completists even as it leaves others to await scenes in which Ms. Best’s unstoppable vivacity charges forward, leaving pretty much everyone else in her wake. The actress plays the sort of poshly spoken free spirit who lapses into French for no discernible reason, and she falls on copies of the English society magazine Tatler as if its gossipy contents were so much catnip.A dentist’s widow who is now the happy mistress of a wealthy cabinet minister (played by Anthony Head), Ms. Best’s Olivia finds her breezy existence challenged by the return to England of her hotheaded son, Michael (Edward Bluemel, tiresome). He is a professed leftist “progressive” who is happy to playact his appointed role as Hamlet if that means getting rid of the Claudius figure represented by Mr. Head’s titled steel magnate, Sir John.Will Olivia side with a lover whose social whirl she adores or a son whose generation she can’t quite seem to grasp? The quandary is played out across nearly three hours and a bewildering array of styles that tilt at times in the direction of Noël Coward, J. B. Priestley and flat-out farce, Mr. Head reaching a nadir of sorts when he is required for comic effect to bang his head in disbelief against the wall. Through it all, Ms. Best coos and purrs and even, on occasion, catches at the heart. She’s a force of nature in a production that feels not a little forced.Mr. Waters was last represented at the Donmar in 2015 with “Temple,” which told the story of the Occupy London movement from an unusual vantage point inside the Chapter House of St. Paul’s Cathedral while social tumult raged on the steps outside. “Limehouse” focuses on another inner sanctum — the kitchen of the onetime Labour foreign secretary, David Owen (a blustery Tom Goodman-Hill), and his American wife, Debbie (Nathalie Armin) — from where decisions are made that will affect the citizenry at large.“Limehouse” takes its title from the London quarter that is mostly fantastically trendy nowadays but that, back then, represented an adventuresome journey for the Owens’ intrepid guests. “Very far east,” notes Bill Rodgers (the sweet-faced Paul Chahidi), the senior politico who accompanies his mock-triumphant arrival by producing some “whiffy” — there’s a British adjective for you! — Camembert.Billed as a “fictionalized account of real events,” the play comes with an epilogue, spoken with the house lights up by Ms. Armin, whose character’s status as neither British nor a politician allows her to act as a choric figure of sorts. (Over the decades, Mrs. Owen has had a successful career of her own, as a literary agent.)But I’m not sure audiences need climactic finger-wagging to realize the relevance of a play whose characters are seen addressing the vexed issue of Europe — plus ça change — alongside the tactics of Britain’s female prime minister of the time.Roger Allam’s pungently played Roy Jenkins is heard pontificating on “the Stygian gloom” of Brussels, though his Continental discontent doesn’t keep him from knocking back the Château Lafite. Fine wine helps its devotees rise above the fray, and Mr. Allam is first among equals as the only one of the four S.D.P. founders no longer alive, however fully Mr. Jenkins’s signature speech impediment lingers: Debbie Owen’s macaroni and cheese gets commended as “wonderfully filling” but “somewhat wich.”Its good humor notwithstanding, Mr. Waters’s play pays serious obeisance to the ways in which, as Bill Rodgers puts it, you “conjure” a party into being. Will this not entirely synchronous foursome agree to — quite literally — come to the table? Suspense is generated on that front from the disappearance for a period of the liberal firebrand Shirley Williams (Debra Gillett), who has an appointment across town at the BBC and isn’t sure whether she might not be happier taking up a job offer from Harvard.When Mrs. Williams — for many years now a baroness — does return, bringing her unquenchable passion with her, one can only look on moist-eyed at an enterprise embarked upon in a spirit that was the exact antithesis of idleness. Even Ms. Best’s frothy Olivia would drink to that.Conversely, I kept an eye longingly on the exit at “Seventeen,” the excruciating Australian play that has set up at the Lyric Hammersmith in West London through April 8. The playwright Matthew Whittet’s portrait of teenagers on the fraught cusp of adulthood was first seen two summers ago at the Belvoir playhouse in Sydney, Australia, with a different cast but the same director, Anne-Louise Sarks.But for the conceit to hold requires writing that seems in some way connected to real life in ways that calling someone “as sexy as diarrhea,” at least to this none-too-cosseted ear, do not. Nor can one commend an ensemble, almost all of whom bellow their lines as if somehow being young again conferred its own invitation to run riot.The welcome exception to the wearying rule is Diana Hardcastle, playing the newly 18-year-old Jess, sister to the antic Mike (Michael Feast) and a possible amour of the smitten Tom (Roger Sloman). “Seventeen” ends with these hesitant lovebirds on the swings, looking toward a future that by rights will include many a less coy and mawkish play.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS