AdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — For years, a coalition of well-funded groups on the religious right have waged an uphill battle to repeal a 1954 law that bans churches and other nonprofit groups from engaging in political activity.Now, those groups are edging toward a once-improbable victory as Republican lawmakers, with the enthusiastic backing of President Trump, prepare to rewrite large swaths of the United States tax code as part of the $1.5 trillion tax package moving through Congress.The change could turn churches into a well-funded political force, with donors diverting as much as $1.7 billion each year from traditional political committees to churches and other nonprofit groups that could legally engage in partisan politics for the first time, according to an estimate by the nonpartisan congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.Senate leaders would need to win over several Republican senators to pass a tax overhaul.With time running out for Republicans to deliver a major legislative victory after nearly a year of stalemate on the party’s top agenda items, lawmakers appear poised to agree to last-minute changes and tweaks to try to ensure the bill’s passage so it can be delivered to President Trump by Christmas. Tax bill negotiations are expected to kick into high gear on Monday, as lawmakers return to Washington with just a handful of legislative days left and big issues to contend with, including the need to pass a funding measure to keep the government open beyond Dec. 8 and action to protect the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.The need for a legislative victory is giving comfort to those on the religious right that the final bill sent to the president will include the House language, which was drafted with significant input from evangelical groups.The sudden movement toward their goal appears to trace back to a January 2016 meeting that Mr. Trump, then a presidential candidate, had convened at his Trump Tower office in Manhattan with evangelical leaders he was courting.That meeting helped lead to a campaign pledge by Mr. Trump to repeal the ban, known as the Johnson Amendment, and set the stage for its inclusion in the tax code overhaul that passed the House.“It will bring the partisan divide to our doors,” said Jatrice Martel Gaiter, the executive vice president of external affairs for Volunteers of America, a ministry and social service provider that receives about 70 percent of its funding from the government. “If the Senate doesn’t stop this, there will be havoc in the nonprofit sector.”Christian conservative leaders contend that the provision in the House bill was drafted narrowly to avoid any such abuse, and they cast the issue as a matter of constitutional rights, rather than politics.Both sides agree that repealing or dialing back the Johnson Amendment seemed improbable at best as recently as a year and a half ago. That was when Mr. Trump’s surprising embrace injected new life into it, and helped spark an alliance that benefited his campaign and the religious right.“That’s the way the world works. The world is transactional. What can we pursue that is mutually beneficial?” said Tony Perkins, a leading figure on the Christian right who is the president of the Family Research Council. His group has been working against the Johnson Amendment for more than a decade. “The awareness was building, but the real catalyst of this conversation was Donald Trump.”Conservative Christian leaders say Mr. Trump seized on the issue at the January meeting in his office. He asked “why Christian organizations and churches did not speak out more on the public policy issues,” said Jerry A. Johnson, the president and chief executive of the National Religious Broadcasters.Mr. Trump “cited a specific conversation he had with a pastor whom he’d met along the journey who didn’t feel he could endorse him, but he wanted to,” said Johnnie Moore, a Christian publicist who was appointed to Mr. Trump’s evangelical board. Mr. Trump said the Johnson Amendment, which threatens religious organizations and charities with loss of their tax-exempt status if they endorse or oppose political candidates, had created a situation in which “some of his most committed supporters were careful about the language they used publicly about him,” Mr. Moore said. He added that the candidate “appeared to be genuinely upset that the federal government would attempt to bully these organizations in this way.”At his behest, the repeal effort was included in the Republican platform for the first time. “Nobody else would even think about doing it,” Mr. Trump boasted, explaining it was “for the evangelicals,” without whom, he said “I could not have won this nomination.”The order was almost immediately challenged in federal court by the nonprofit Freedom From Religion Foundation, which said the order gave preference to “religion over nonreligion.”Nonetheless, conservative Christian leaders have increasingly seized on the Johnson Amendment as an example of what they see as government hostility to religion in the public square.In 2008, Mr. Farris’s group began an effort to overturn the Johnson Amendment in court through an annual civil disobedience protest called “Pulpit Freedom Sunday.” His group and Mr. Perkins’s group helped recruit pastors to deliver overtly political sermons and transmit the recordings to the I.R.S. The aim was to tempt the agency to try to revoke the churches’ tax exemption, giving them standing to challenge the constitutionality of the Johnson Amendment in court. It has yet to take the bait.Other opponents began efforts to repeal the ban in Congress. Bills to do so were supported by powerful Christian conservative groups, including Mr. Perkins’s Family Research Council, the Christian Coalition and the Traditional Values Coalition, according to lobbying filings.A more nuanced approach emerged from an interfaith commission convened in 2011 by another nonprofit group, the Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability, which suggested leaving the Johnson Amendment intact but allowing churches and other nonprofit groups to support or oppose candidates in the “ordinary course of an organization’s regular and customary” activities, provided the amount spent on such activity was “de minimis.”The recommendations became the basis for a bill called the Free Speech Fairness Act, which was introduced last year in the House by Representative Steve Scalise, Republican of Louisiana, and this year in the Senate by Mr. Lankford, and for the language in the House tax bill.Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, and Laurie Goodstein from New York.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS