AdvertisementPortion of survey responses to this question: What is the most important problem facing the United States today?27%Terrorism21%Economy151511Unemployment108865Immigration710152024NOV.On Nov. 7, 8 percent of those polled ranked terrorism as the most important problem facing the country. More than twice as many people, 21 percent, identified the economy as more troubling, and 11 percent identified unemployment as their gravest concern. By Nov. 24, 27 percent of respondents named terrorism as their primary worry, compared to 15 percent who identified the economy, and 10 percent who named unemployment. If terror remains this high in voters’ consciousness a year from now, it is likely to pose a major problem for Democrats.AdvertisementVoters preferred the Republican Party by an average of 21 points, 52-31.Republican strategists are acutely aware of Democratic vulnerability on matters of national security and, by extension, on foreign policy in general.AdvertisementFrom the 1968 election of Richard M. Nixon to the 2004 George W. Bush campaign, Republicans have demonstrated expertise in tarring liberalism with softness on crime and insufficient vigilance on terrorism.Because of the unusual character of the party’s leading candidates this year, Republicans may not be able to fully capitalize on the party’s advantage on security issues.The views that some of the candidates have recently espoused — especially those of Donald Trump and Ted Cruz but also Marco Rubio — could obviate the party’s advantage on terrorism. Jeb Bush’s mainstream credentials and more nuanced stands could position him to more effectively capitalize on public fears, but his candidacy has been on a steady downward trajectory.I will stop illegal immigration. We’ll build a wall on the southern border. And yes, I will also quickly and decisively bomb the hell out of ISIS. We’ll rebuild our military and make it so strong no one, and I mean no one, will mess with us.For most of us, its venom is a clear and deadly threat. But others refuse to even speak its name. Since the scorpion seeks our destruction, isn’t it time we recognize the scorpion for what it is before it strikes again?AdvertisementBen Carson, one of the least bellicose candidates and a candidate without foreign policy expertise (not that Trump has any), has been the big loser. Nationally, Carson has fallen from 24.4 percent to 19.8 percent since the attacks, and suffered similar declines in New Hampshire and Iowa.Robert Shapiro, a political scientist at Columbia and expert on polling, wrote me:I interpret it as close for Hillary and Trump, with Hillary still probably with an edge. It looks close with Rubio, Christie, and Carson who have been closing the gap.For Clinton, any sign that she is abandoning liberal stands could prove damaging during the primaries. She is running for the presidential nomination in a Democratic Party that has moved well to the left since 2000.Share of Democrats, independents and Republicans who identify themselves as liberal.In 201444%In 2000Democrats29%2121Independents65Republicans0Clinton’s willingness, or lack thereof, to stay the liberal course in the general election will reflect the political resilience of the Democratic coalition that displayed its strength in the 2008 presidential election. The more Clinton can rely on this coalition for victory, the less pressure she will be under to move toward the center.Republicans, meanwhile, are relishing a general election in which they hope the threat of terrorism will deal a lethal blow to Clinton.These events are producing a tremendous rise in nationalism, I think in tribalism in Europe, of nations’ desiring to be themselves, securing their borders, and almost as well of Caesarism — in other words, the look for a strong leader, someone who will deal with these devils who came to kill us and who will deal with them in a tough way.For Republicans, 2016 will prove to be no normal election, because it will confirm that the new America is here and that the counterrevolution has lost. That is why I expect the result to be shattering for the Republican Party as we know it.Terrorist attacks, especially if they are reinforced by new assaults, have the potential to undermine the legitimacy of a tolerant liberalism. Based on the present risk of terrorist violence here and abroad, this is a threat Democrats cannot avoid. The goal of terrorism is to destroy the liberal state. If Clinton and candidates up and down the ticket cannot persuade voters that a Democratic administration can protect the lives of American citizens, the damage will extend far beyond one political party and one presidential campaign.See More »Go to Home Page »