AdvertisementSupported byYou may be a reliable Democratic voter in a solid-blue city. Maybe you have a graduate degree; maybe you’re a member of an ethnic or religious minority; maybe you are a woman.Any of these would make you a likely Hillary Clinton supporter. So why did you just see an ad for Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign on Facebook?Microtargeted online advertisements can be a powerful tool for political campaigns to tailor a message to specific people they are trying to reach. But the reason you saw a particular campaign ad on Facebook may have nothing to do with your political views, or even your demographic profile. It could depend on whether you live in a swing state and on your internet activity — or be practically random.You can find the reasons you were shown a particular ad, political or otherwise, on Facebook with just a few steps.Here’s how:• First, find an ad in your Facebook news feed.• Then, in the upper right corner of that ad, find the small V-shaped gray arrow and click it.• A menu will appear with a button that says, “Why am I seeing this?” Click it.• A pop-up will appear with an explanation of why the advertiser chose to show you that ad.Advertisers get the most for their money by sending their ads to people most likely to be receptive to them. But some ads are very broadly targeted. Lisa Klepper Tannenbaum, a suburban New Jersey woman who is a registered Democrat and likes Mrs. Clinton’s Facebook page — she even volunteers for her campaign — saw an ad seeking donations from Mr. Trump on her Facebook feed between family photos and updates from long-lost high school classmates.“What actions have I taken, what sites have I visited, that would make someone believe there’s even a remote possibility I would support Donald Trump?” Ms. Tannenbaum said she wondered.One possible explanation is that Mr. Trump’s campaign has run some ads to be shown to anyone older than 27 in the United States.Brad Parscale, the digital director for the Trump campaign, said the campaign had tested many combinations of demographic criteria to raise the most money while spending less on ads. The campaign’s online donors tend to be older than 27, he said, adding that younger people, who are less likely to donate, may be shown fewer fund-raising ads.Here are some other reasons you might see a candidate’s ads:Facebook then matches each email to the correct Facebook page, assuming the supporter is one of the roughly 200 million Americans with an account. Advertisers, including the Trump campaign, have used this targeting mechanism to encourage a subset of their supporters in swing states like North Carolina and Florida to request an absentee ballot.Many campaign sites include small pieces of software from Facebook or other networks that record who visited the site. This technique, called retargeting, is not unique to politics; you may have comparison-shopped for a computer or other big-ticket item and then discovered that ads for that exact item seemed to follow you around the web for weeks.And it can come across as a personal insult: Just as a devoted iPhone user does not want to be bombarded with Samsung ads, a Trump supporter might not want to be hounded by plugs for Mrs. Clinton.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS