AdvertisementA house may be large or small; as long as the neighboring houses are likewise small, it satisfies all social requirement for a residence. But let there arise next to the little house a palace, and the little house shrinks to a hut.In it, you are asked to choose between living in a 4,000-square-foot house where all the neighbors have 6,000-square-foot homes or living in a 3,000-square-foot house where all the others are 2,000 square feet.The most common choice, Frank reported, was the 3,000-square-foot house. Even though a 4,000-square-foot house has more room in absolute terms, the 3,000-square-foot house has more relative value compared with its neighbors.Housing is a positional good: we get additional satisfaction from a larger house not only because a larger house is better in absolute terms, but also because a larger house is better is relative terms. That is, we get additional satisfaction from having more house than the Joneses next door. Trouble is, the Joneses are no different, and when they too work harder to fund their own bigger house, our relative satisfaction gain disappears. We are now merely keeping up with the Joneses.AdvertisementTheir wages have stagnated or declined; the ascendance of minorities has threatened their cultural dominance; and the growth of an increasingly large and affluent upper middle class has pushed goods and services once viewed as theirs by right beyond their reach.AdvertisementAs Frank explained in Vox last year:The median new house in the U.S. is now 50 percent larger than it was in 1980, even though the median income has grown only slightly in real terms. Houses are growing faster than incomes because of a process I call “expenditure cascades.”In an email exchange with me, Frank observed thatFor those who are not absolutely poor, the central economic question is, “Do we have enough income to achieve our goals?” The answer depends to a significant extent on the spending of other families in the community. Most families want to send their children to good schools, for example, but a family’s ability to achieve that goal depends on how much other families are spending on housing. That’s because school quality is an inescapably relative concept.The problems of positional status and relative deprivation are fueled by income inequality, Frank argues:A family at the median income level would reasonably aspire to send its children to schools of at least average quality. But to do that, it would have to buy or rent a house near the median of its city’s housing price distribution. And that’s become significantly harder to do.In effect, the increase in the resources commandeered by the overclass has pulled the rug out from under the once upwardly mobile white working class.Housing is a key example of the rising cost of positional goods, but there are many others. “Most families reasonably aspire to host a reception for their daughter’s wedding that guests would remember as special,” Frank writes in the Vox piece, but “the inflation-adjusted cost of the average wedding in the U.S. was $31,000 in 2015, up from about $10,000 in 1980.”Crucially important is the fact that rising inequality constitutes a double whammy. It raises the cost of sought-after goods and it increases the economic gap between the working class and the affluent, spurring nostalgia for what was (even if what was really wasn’t).Growing income inequality in the U.S. has meant that as those at the top are able bid up the price of valued goods like housing and access to good schools, those in lower groups have struggled to maintain their positions.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Manhood is an uncertain, tenuous status and one that is easily threatened; thus, men will often take compensatory measures to restore or affirm manhood. In this case, manhood can be affirmed symbolically through one’s vote or show of support to a candidate who embodies manhood.For working class whites, Vandello wrote, the loss of their privileged status and loss of manufacturing jobs go to thecore of what it means to be a man in our culture — being the protector and provider.highlighting group differences, cultures, etc. has contributed to Trump’s appeal, especially given that white men are often blamed for being oppressive or the source of many of the issues being protested.The result in the white working class, Geary argues, is to sharpen the us-versus-them character of politics.You cannot consistently have different groups arguing for equality, protesting etc. without creating an in-group, out-group mentality — an evolved bias that is easily invoked — within the U.S.Many of Trump’s supporters have been left behind, marginalized by the economic, cultural and demographic transformations brought about by globalization. Trump likes to assure these beleaguered voters that he will restore their vanished status, but the reality is that his chaotic appropriation of right-wing populism — its threats and its promises — is fraudulent, as bereft of value as his bankrupt casinos.See More »Go to Home Page »