Over the last year, Jessica Dimson, a photo editor on the Politics desk of The New York Times, has helped lead a team of photographers in covering 50 primaries and caucuses, 21 debates and countless campaign events. Ms. Dimson, who graduated from Yale, joined the Times in 2011, working as a photo editor on the Metro and National desks. Prior to The Times, she was a photo editor at Departures and Vanity Fair.What makes a great political photograph?A great political photograph has the qualities of any great photograph — an evocative confluence of aesthetic, emotional and historical elements. But one of the unique challenges of political photography is that the subject matter is often familiar, so a photograph that is surprising, sophisticated, analytical or subtle can really elevate a political photo.Campaign stops often are highly-restrictive, stage-managed events, so any photo that penetrates that or goes beyond what a campaign wants you to see is important. And often those photographs are not of the candidate themselves. There is magic in the periphery.Why do we commit so many resources to covering the presidential campaign photographically? There are many wire service photographers from A.P., Reuters and others at every event and we can use their photos. Why do you want a New York Times photographer too?There are a lot of great wire photographers on the trail, but I think what we bring something different than the wires.A hallmark of Times political photography is that we encourage our photographers to take risks in how they document the campaign. That is reflected both in what they shoot and what we decide to publish. Also, many of our photographers have covered presidential campaigns before. They understand the rhythms and the dynamics and they bring a context to what’s come before 2016. I think that is invaluable.I think we want our photographers to be reporters as well.That is what they do every day on the trail. They’re not just documenting what’s happening in front of the camera, but bringing context and nuance to the coverage.We have many experienced staff photographers in the campaign this year but also several freelance photographers who work regularly for us. What traits do you look for in a potential campaign photographer?We have a number of very talented freelancers on the trail this year, some of whom are photographing a presidential campaign for the first time.I give this recommendation to anyone who is new to working with us: We know what the candidate looks like.That is a signal that we want you to take risks, and it’s O.K. to shoot to the right if all of the photographers standing next to you are shooting to the left. Don’t follow the pack. And we do not expect every photo to be of the candidate and welcome a less literal approach.What’s involved in supervising The New York Times photographic coverage of campaigns?It’s part editor and part facilitator. A lot of my job is looking at and selecting images, but a lot of time is also devoted to handling the logistics — which photographer is traveling with a candidate, keeping track of the candidate schedule (at one time there were 20 candidates, so there was a lot to juggle), helping photographers move from point A to point B and making sure we meet deadlines.I speak with photographers on the road about what they are seeing out there — they are reporters as well as photographers — and give guidance about what we might be interested in on a particular day. But I don’t direct how or what should be photographed — our photographers dictate that. And sometimes I’m just there to listen. They are often working 18-hour days and it’s taxing out there on the road.There are also more than 20 political reporters, and I’m working alongside them to conceptualize ways that we can best illustrate their stories.Is it difficult to get access for our photographers?There are challenges with both campaigns. As a news organization, we always want more access to the candidates. They are on an extensive job interview with the entire country, and we believe that we should be able to fully document that process and all that comes with it.The term the ‘campaign trail’ is a bit of a misnomer this year — the reality is that both Clinton and Trump often fly in for a single event in a day, speak for 20 minutes, and fly out right after. There are no bus tours or diner stops. In some cases, we are relegated to shoot from literal pens in the back of an auditorium. That is frustrating and we speak up about that. So there is an ongoing conversation about access with the campaigns.So your first presidential national party conventions are coming up. How do you plan for something like this?This is no small undertaking. We have about 10 photographers traveling to Philadelphia and Cleveland, and all of our staff photographers who are going have covered conventions in past years. Some will spend most of their time covering the action inside the arena, while others will be dedicated to covering and tracking protests and the scene outside.Events like these are where The Times really excels at giving readers an unvarnished and immediate sense of what is transpiring. We have the ability to transmit photographs very quickly, often in a matter of seconds, and can then publish them on our site and to social media platforms — including Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram — a few seconds after that. I won’t attempt to explain all of the in-depth technical aspects because I’m lucky to work with people who understand it better than I do and make it all happen, but we have hard-wired lines at various spots in the arena and photographers will filing directly from their cameras. There are other aspects involving power supplies, routers, and remotes, but I leave that to the experts.I will be in the arena editing photos as they come, and another photo editor on the politics desk, Morrigan McCarthy, will be onsite as well. Tanner Curtis, who works on the National desk, will be editing in New York.We can adjust our coverage based on how things transpire over the next two weeks. We’re very nimble in that way. We also have photographers who are going to be traveling with each candidate before their arrival at their respective convention.The Times often gets complaints about coverage, often by both sides of an issue or a presidential campaign. What does fairness mean in visual political coverage?Fairness is of paramount importance to us, and if you view our coverage in totality over the course of the last 15 months, I think you will find that we are balanced in how we represent the campaigns visually. We are mindful not just of which images run, but also how they run — the context in which an image is published, the prominence of a particular story, is it a news item or a more analytical piece — all of those are factors in our decision.This is a particularly polarizing election and readers may have strong feelings about certain images. Politics is a very personal issue for most people, and I welcome the dialogue — differing interpretations of a photograph are valuable and essential to the medium. For the most part, when we do get feedback it has been very positive. I think that our audience values a less-traditional approach to our visual coverage.