AdvertisementOn a recent night, shopping online for a light jacket or a cotton sweater — some kind of outerwear to guard my body against a springlike breeze — I clicked on the ‘‘new arrivals’’ page of the website of a popular retailer and encountered, unexpectedly, another instance of the complex oddity of race. Here, projecting catalog-model cordiality in the sterile space of an off-white backdrop, was a young black man in a hoodie.On the street, a black guy in a hoodie is just another of the many millions of men and boys dressed in the practical gear of an easygoing era. Or he should be. This is less an analysis than a wish. The electric charge of the isolated image — which provokes a flinch away from thought, a desire to evade the issue by moving on to check the sizing guide — attests to a consciousness of the hoodie’s recent history of peculiar reception. In a cardigan or a crew neck, this model is just another model. In the hoodie, he is a folk demon and a scapegoat, a political symbol and a moving target, and the system of signs that weighs this upon him does not make special distinctions for an Italian cashmere hoodie timelessly designed in heather gray.At the computer, prodded out of the rhythm of browsing, I tried to imagine the meetings that led to this catalog model being placed in this hoodie, in the vacuum of commercial space. Beyond the usual earnest discussion of the styling of his pushed-up sleeves and the asymmetrical dangle of his drawstrings, there had to have been delicate conversations, informed by H.R. policy and P.C. etiquette, straightforward aesthetic concerns and knotty social ones. It is impossible that the production designers were ignorant of the ghost of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed 17-year-old fatally shot four years ago while wearing much the same thing. Did the model present a distraction from the reality on the streets? Did the art director start feeling somehow guilty for even considering such a question? The choice to put the kid in the picture must count as a modest political act, given the rich absurdity of the codes pertaining to a harmless piece of clothing.AdvertisementAdvertisementWhich brings you to the transcript of the 911 call made by Trayvon Martin’s killer. Dispatcher: ‘‘Did you see what he was wearing?’’ George Zimmerman: ‘‘Yeah. A dark hoodie, like a gray hoodie.’’ Triv­ial details can bear serious import. Surely there would have been demonstrations after the killing and the killer’s acquittal regardless of what the victim wore. As it happened, those demonstrators — legislators on chamber floors, marchers in the street — picked up the sweatshirt as an emblem, donning hoods in solidarity. Instantly a symbol aggrieved at having to be one, the hoodie was jolted into a curious space: Where the basic hoodie means to defend against the elements, the protest hoodie seeks to offend the right people. In the paranoid view of stodgy shopkeepers, the hoodie is to be feared for extinguishing individuality; in its politicized life, it mutes identity to signal alliance, not unlike a resistance group’s uniform.All that potential subtext is attached to a generally evocative item of clothing. The white working-class hoodie still glows with the Rocky Balboa ideal of grit and tenacity. The yoga-class hoodie is sold on a promise of snuggly virtue that may explain why in Saskatchewan they call the thing a ‘‘bunny hug.’’ The tech-sector hoodie made default by Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg carries on the garment’s proud juvenile tradition of informality and defiance. Once perceived as an affront to professionalism, it has since settled in as a convention.Troy Patterson is a contributing writer for the magazine.See More »Go to Home Page »