AdvertisementSupported byPopcastThe Popcast is hosted by Jon Caramanica, pop music critic for The New York Times. It covers the latest in pop music criticism, trends and news.What do both albums say about the state of rock? That it’s thriving. But the “rock is dead” conversation still has legs, largely because of an idea about indie rock that arose in the early 2000s.“People tend to associate it with a time and a place,” Mr. Ozzi says, referring to the mid-2000s success of bands like the Shins and Arcade Fire. “So when people think of indie rock, they think of that ‘Garden State’ soundtrack type of rock, even though there’s nothing independent about it. So when people get that in their head, that’s what indie rock was, people mean there’s no more of the Shins-type bands. But if you want to look at independent rock, here are two bands that are on independently run labels” that are flourishing.But as Mr. Coscarelli points out, “The real excitement in punk and indie rock has been in female bands.”“That’s the unspoken elephant in the room,” he added, “when we talk about the death of rock ’n’ roll, or how indie rock isn’t in the zeitgeist, or no rock bands are on the charts — in the underground, it’s all women.”So what stops bands like Hop Along, Dilly Dally or Bully from reaching the next level? Mr. Coscarelli cites the disappearance of rock radio, which still plays a large role in breaking new artists. “Rock fans don’t really stream with the power that hip-hop and R&B fans do,” he said, “and the way the charts are weighted now with streams factored in, rock bands aren’t getting any juice off of that.”Mr. Ozzi thinks that the internet’s focus on individual personalities has also played a role: “In 1992, we cared about Nirvana, the band. If there was Twitter in 1992, would you follow Krist Novoselic? No, you would follow Kurt Cobain.”So what personality can kick down the door next? Hayley Williams, the Popcast awaits the new Paramore album.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS