AdvertisementSupported bySince Election Day there has been an abundance of liberal hyperbole about the dangers of a Trump administration.There is, however, a good chance that they are dead right.Donald Trump has amassed such a collection of Four-Pinocchio ratings — 59 in all — that by himself he’s earned as many in this campaign as all other Republicans (or Democrats) combined in the past three years.the continuous alteration of the past, and in the long run probably demands a disbelief in the very existence of objective truth.In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.On Dec. 9 the Washington Post published a story on the C.I.A.’s assessment that American intelligence agencies hadidentified individuals with connections to the Russian government who provided WikiLeaks with thousands of hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and others, including Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, according to U.S. officials. Those officials described the individuals as actors known to the intelligence community and part of a wider Russian operation to boost Trump and hurt Clinton’s chances.These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. It’s now time to move on and “Make America Great Again.”To have the president-elect of the United States simply reject the fact-based narrative that the intelligence community puts together because it conflicts with his a priori assumptions — wow.The ongoing conflict over the intelligence agency’s analysis of Russian involvement has become the first major test of Trump’s alt-reality vision.The facts are stubborn things. They did hack into this campaign.There is method to Trump’s madness. Despite the nine lives he has demonstrated, he seems eager to avoid a damaging challenge to his legitimacy as the nation’s chief executive, intent on defining his election as “a massive landslide victory” and “one of the great victories of all time.”Uniformity and order are authoritarian watch words. Authoritarians obey. They seek order. They follow authoritarian leaders. They eschew diversity, fear “the other,” act aggressively toward others, and, once they have identified friend from foe, hold tight to their decision.There’s no such thing, unfortunately anymore, as facts. And so Mr. Trump’s tweets, among a certain crowd — a large part of the population — are truth. When he says that millions of people illegally voted, he has some facts — among him and his supporters — and people believe they have facts to back that up. Those that do not like Mr. Trump, they say that those are lies and there’s no facts to back it up.Or as Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s former campaign manager and current adviser, puts it:This is the problem with the media. You guys took everything that Donald Trump said so literally. The American people didn’t.Ownership of this phenomenon is not the exclusive property of the right. Democrats, liberals and academics have made significant, if unknowing, contributions to the credulity of Trump’s supporters.Proponents of globalization, Rodrik argues, have in recent decades downplayed the costs of trade on the “implicit premise” thatthere are barbarians on only one side of the trade debate. Apparently, those who complain about World Trade Organization rules or trade agreements are awful protectionists, while those who support them are always on the side of the angels.The result is that many in the economics professionhave consistently minimized distributional concerns, even though it is now clear that the distributional impact of, say, the North American Free Trade Agreement or China’s entry into the World Trade Organization were significant for the most directly affected communities in the United States.less-educated white voters had a solid economic rationale for voting against the status quo — nearly all the gains from the economic recovery have passed them by.Since Nov. 7, 2007, according to Porter, Hispanics have gained nearly 5 million jobs, African-Americans and Asian-Americans have each gained over 2 million jobs, but whites have lost nearly 1 million jobs. Those job losses were heavily concentrated in those Rust Belt and, relatively speaking, more rural states where Trump racked up his Electoral College win.The credibility of the Democratic Party generally among Trump voters is at an all-time low, as Democratic candidates discovered on Nov. 8.This Democratic vulnerability was explored in depth by Katherine Cramer, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, in a book on voters in that state, “The Politics of Resentment,” which came out in March. In her study, Cramer described the three elements of “rural consciousness”:First, a belief that rural areas are ignored by decision makers, including policy makers, second, a perception that rural areas do not get their fair share of resources, and third a sense that rural folks have fundamentally distinct values and lifestyles, which are misunderstood and disrespected by city folks.The result, she argues, is the creation of a rural identity “infused with a sense of distributive injustice,” much of it focused on liberal policies directing tax dollars to urban racial minorities.These rural voters, and others in the Trump coalition, are more than willing to give Trump the benefit of the doubt. Their deep feeling that whatever else he was, he was on their side permitted him to shrug off criticism as emanating from malevolent political elites.Trump’s attempt to subvert truth is a major challenge to democratic governance. In this context, it may be wise to listen to the predictions of Masha Gessen. “Despite losing the popular vote, Trump has secured as much power as any American leader in recent history,” she writes in The New York Review of Books essay I mentioned earlier. “He will want to maintain and increase it — his ideal is the totalitarian-level popularity numbers of Vladimir Putin.”Having watched in frustration as Trump ran roughshod over the party establishment and all of its candidates, Republicans are actually more likely than Democrats to recognize the potential threat posed by the president-elect. Because of this — in the strange pathways of politics — the hearings on alleged Russian hacking will become not only an inquiry into cyber espionage, but also a forum for Republican leaders to put Trump in his place and to set limits on his presidency.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS