AdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — As the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation draws closer to him, President Trump on Sunday unleashed an extraordinary assault on the nation’s premier law enforcement agency, calling it a biased institution whose reputation for fairness was “in tatters.”Current and former F.B.I. officials, historians and lawmakers rebuked the president over his efforts to undermine the F.B.I.’s credibility as it investigates whether his campaign colluded with Russian officials to sway the 2016 election. A president who has positioned himself as devoted to law and order is now in a public dispute with the country’s top law enforcement agents.Thomas O’Connor, the president of the association representing F.B.I. agents, defended their integrity in a statement. “F.B.I. agents are dedicated to their mission,” he said, asserting that they demonstrated “unwavering integrity and professionalism” on the job. “Suggesting otherwise is simply false,” he added.On Friday, Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, admitted that he had lied to the F.B.I. about his conversations with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition. As part of the bureau’s inquiry, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is believed to be examining whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, who was overseeing the inquiry. Mr. Comey has said Mr. Trump asked him to drop the investigation into Mr. Flynn.Mr. Trump’s fury at those investigating him stunned even those with fresh memories of his repeated attempts over the past year to disparage intelligence agencies, the State Department and other parts of his government. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said the frenzied nature of the president’s tweets suggested that he knew that Mr. Mueller was building an obstruction of justice case against him.“I see it in the hyper-frenetic attitude of the White House, the comments every day, the continual tweets,” Ms. Feinstein said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday.In several tweets, the president harshly criticized the agent, Peter Strzok, who had previously helped lead the 2016 investigation into whether Mrs. Clinton had mishandled classified information on her private email account. Mr. Strzok is considered one of the bureau’s most experienced and trusted counterintelligence investigators.Most presidents enter the Oval Office with an instinct to defend and promote the integrity and capabilities of the nation’s law enforcement agencies. Mr. Trump arrived with a different compulsion, fueled by a belief that intelligence and law enforcement officials were stoking questions about the legitimacy of his election victory.By suggesting — as he has before — that the F.B.I. and other agencies are motivated by politics, Mr. Trump again embraced the kind of suspicions that feed conspiracy theories about a “deep state” operating with a secret bias against him.Still, even though Mr. Trump’s attacks on government agencies are now a familiar theme, former F.B.I. officials and veteran observers of the agency said they were surprised at the ease with which the president sought to defend himself by attacking the reputations of Mr. Comey, Mr. Mueller, Mr. Strzok and the 35,000 people who work at the F.B.I.Robert E. Anderson Jr., a former top spy hunter at the bureau, said the president’s comments would have a dispiriting effect on F.B.I. morale, especially among those who are not involved in political investigations.“You’ve got men and women working tirelessly in every corner of this world to protect the United States and its people,” Mr. Anderson said. “When he says what he says, it’s an insult and it’s degrading to the men and women who are sacrificing their lives to protect this great nation.”Mr. Anderson also came to the defense of Mr. Strzok, calling him “one of the most methodical, most meticulous, hard-working counterintelligence experts in the entire United States intelligence community.” Mr. Anderson said Mr. Strzok “never displayed political bias.”“I wake up every day fired up to come to work — to be part of this extraordinary group — and to see where we can go next,” he said.Mr. Trump’s efforts to shift attention away from Mr. Flynn’s guilty plea began Saturday night, when he assailed the Justice Department for its handling of the Clinton email investigation and questioned the department’s dedication to living up to its name.“After years of Comey, with the phony and dishonest Clinton investigation (and more), running the FBI, its reputation is in Tatters — worst in History!” Mr. Trump wrote. “But fear not, we will bring it back to greatness.”The tweet drew a sharp rebuke from Mr. Holder. “The FBI’s reputation is not in ‘tatters,’” Mr. Holder wrote on Twitter. “It’s composed of the same dedicated men and women who have always worked there and who do a great, apolitical job.”Matt Apuzzo, Adam Goldman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS