Advertisement
Supported by
WASHINGTON — In a big partisan gerrymandering case that will come before the Supreme Court in March, lawyers and judges have already devoted thousands of words to the question of why some of Maryland’s eight congressional districts are so, ah, creatively drawn.
But the best answer by far comes from the man who drew them.
In 2011, Eric Hawkins lugged a laptop loaded with demographic data and a program called Maptitude to Capitol Hill and the offices of the state’s six Democratic House members. Over a series of meetings of which there apparently are no written records, Mr. Hawkins not only crafted new districts for those members, but rerouted the district of 10-term Republican Representative Roscoe Bartlett to make it substantially more challenging for a Republican.
In the first election after the new maps were drawn, Mr. Bartlett failed to muster even 38 percent of the vote. And Maryland Democrats added another House seat to the six they already boasted.
Asked in a deposition last year why the state’s Democratic House members met with him, Mr. Hawkins was refreshingly forthcoming. “They wanted to get re-elected,” he said.
Mr. Hawkins, an analyst for a Washington political consulting firm called NCEC Services Inc., is part of a cottage industry of statisticians, computer jockeys and political sages whose business is to turn demographic data into electoral maps. His firm works exclusively with Democrats; others — like Geographic Strategies, run by the former Republican Party redistricting expert Thomas B. Hofeller — are dog-loyal to Republicans.
By and large, they are political junkies and data nerds. Mr. Hawkins left the University of Colorado in the 1980s to join the doomed presidential campaigns of Senator Gary Hart and Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts before going into consulting. Mr. Hofeller holds a Ph.D. in government, helped develop the first computerized redistricting system for California’s State Assembly, and has long been the mapmaking éminence grise in the Republican Party.
But the reality is at least somewhat different. If most mapmakers are unabashedly partisan, their work goes well beyond back-room politics. A good map meets constitutional requirements, such as allotting an equal number of people to every district and respecting racial and ethnic populations. It keeps communities intact rather than splitting them into different jurisdictions; pays attention to rivers and other geographic features that shape jurisdictions. It doesn’t needlessly oust incumbents.
And when one party controls the process, even good maps usually strengthen majority control. The Supreme Court has allowed that some partisanship in redistricting is inevitable; the question in the Maryland case is whether it has run unconstitutionally amok.
In the most egregious partisan gerrymanders, maps generally ignore some or all of those strictures. For their part, mapmakers are quick to point out that their job is to implement political will, not to determine it.
Said one Republican consultant, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity: “Some people think I just walk into a legislature with a map and they genuflect to me. That’s not the way it works.”
Indeed, as court records in the Maryland case show, incumbent politicians often make demands of mapmakers that go beyond drawing themselves a safe seat. Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberg, a Maryland Democrat who served at the time on the House Intelligence Committee, insisted that Fort Meade, the home of the National Security Agency, be part of his turf, according to a deposition of then-Governor Martin O’Malley. Representative Donna Edwards, another Democrat who left office last year, insisted that her district be left untouched — no easy task, as population shifts alone required that new boundaries be drawn.
An exercise in ruthless gerrymandering in a state already known for it.
Besides the Wisconsin and Maryland cases, partisan gerrymanders are under assault in North Carolina and Pennsylvania, where courts invalidated Republican-drawn congressional maps this month. Mr. Hofeller’s firm, Geographic Strategies, drew the North Carolina districts — as in Maryland, according to court depositions, without leaving a paper trail. Pennsylvania relied on legislative staff members to carve up the state’s House districts.
But in all cases, the process is more or less the same. Mapmakers begin with Census Bureau data that marries political boundaries and geographic features like rivers and roads with information on residents’ ages, races and ethnicities. Redistricting software can add custom-tailored political data to the mix, allowing map-drafters to see instantly the partisan impact on a proposed district of adding or removing areas as small as a block.
Kimball W. Brace, whose firm, Election Data Services, mostly assists Democrats, said the basics are little changed from the 1980s, when he used huge paper maps and acetate overlays to create districts in Illinois. Back then, he said, finished map data was entered onto coding sheets by hand, then taken to a local bank whose mainframe would crunch the numbers overnight after it finished clearing checks.
Modern computers have reduced those weeks of work to hours, and both maps and census and political data have become far more accurate, he said. In creating 2011 redistricting maps, Wisconsin Republicans created a composite partisan score for each of the state’s 6,000-plus wards based on the results of statewide elections since 2004. North Carolina used results from as many as 20 state elections; Maryland’s NCEC Services used a regularly updated “Democratic performance index,” a proprietary analysis of the party’s strength in state and federal races.
Redistricting that begins in 2021 is likely to be even more finely tuned, Mr. Brace said, relying on the explosion of marketing and online information that can infer personal preferences down to individual households. “We’re seeing that more and more in campaigns,” he said, “so I think you’ll see people wanting to use it in redistricting.”
While consultants can and sometimes do produce hundreds of suggested maps, most present political leaders with between five and 10 options that can be fine-tuned to meet incumbents’ wishes.
In states where political power is divided, district maps may be politically neutral — or drawn to shield incumbents in both parties. In other states under one-party control, the political marching orders may be more brazen: North Carolina Republicans ordered that no more than three of the state’s 13 House seats be given to Democrats.
Mr. Gaddie, who analyzed the partisan impact of proposed Wisconsin State Assembly maps for the chamber’s Republicans, says partisan gerrymandering has become a threat to the political system because politics has devolved into all-out ideological war, not because of redistricting software or dark-hearted mapmakers. He said he abandoned a sideline as a redistricting adviser and expert witness in redistricting lawsuits after finishing work in Wisconsin.
“I liked working for them in ’02,” he said, “because I’d sit down with a lawyer and they’d say, ‘I like competitive maps. When a map is competitive, we can win on the merits.’ By the time I get around to 2011, they’ve changed. I can’t defend this crap.”
That is not to say that mapmakers are wholly innocent bystanders in the process. “It would be good for the country and politics if partisan gerrymandering ended,” Mark Gersh, the former president of NCEC Services, said in an email this week. But in a subsequent interview, Mr. Gersh stood up for his firm’s work in Maryland and elsewhere.
“I don’t believe in unilateralism,” he said. “If one side does it, the other has to. If that makes me unethical, so be it.”
Maryland’s redistricting was driven by the Democratic governor, Mr. O’Malley, who testified in a deposition that he felt “it was not only my responsibility, but my duty” to saturate Maryland’s Republican-leaning Sixth District with Democratic voters “provided we obeyed the dictates of the law.”
“Incumbent protection,” Mr. Hawkins testified in the Maryland lawsuit last year, “was the major focus of this.”
Asked whether those incumbents included Representative Bartlett, the Republican in the Sixth District, Mr. Hawkins replied, “No.”
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
The bar for a chief executive of a public corporation to repudiate a United States president is extraordinarily high. Corporate leaders aren’t given their power, prestige, responsibility and nine-figure pay packages to use the corner office as their personal soapbox.
With President Trump’s comments on white supremacists and other right-wing extremists ringing in the ears of America’s chief executives, that high bar appears to have been passed.
Such a public schism between a president and a business leadership long considered the backbone of the Republican establishment left corporate historians at a loss for precedent. “There’s never been anything to compare to this,” said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, a dean of leadership studies at the Yale School of Management and the author of “Firing Back: How Great Leaders Rebound From Career Disasters.”
Advertisement
Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, said he knew of no other examples, not even involving Richard Nixon at the height of the Vietnam War protests and during Watergate.
Advertisement
Referring to a tweet by Mr. Trump criticizing Kenneth C. Frazier, the Merck executive who led this week’s corporate retreat from the White House councils, Mr. Sonnenfeld said, “Never in history has a president attacked and threatened the chief executive of a major U.S. corporation like that.”
Now that Ken Frazier of Merck Pharma has resigned from President's Manufacturing Council,he will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!
After provoking a furor with his initial failure to condemn the white supremacists behind last weekend’s violence in Charlottesville, Va., Mr. Trump might have staved off a full-scale exodus with his somewhat stilted but conciliatory comments on Monday. But then he reignited the flames at a news conference on Tuesday at which he said there was “blame on both sides,” including club-wielding members of what he called the “alt-left,” for the Charlottesville violence. The white nationalist leader Richard Spencer and the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke were quick to embrace his remarks.
As pressure mounted on prominent council members like Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, Ginni Rometty of IBM and Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo, as well as other chief executives who remained silent or issued platitudes, corporate boards were hastily meeting to map strategy. “I’ve heard from 24 chief executives in the past two days,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said on Wednesday. “Boards are having ad hoc conference calls. People are very worried and concerned.”
Those conversations have been far more complicated than one might expect. It’s safe to say that no chief executive wants to be identified with white supremacy, racism or domestic terrorism. At the same time the president wields enormous influence over their shareholders, employees and customers.
“Chief executives don’t have the luxury of ventilating their personal political opinions, whatever they might be,” Mr. Elson said. “They shouldn’t let their personal views influence their business decisions. If they really feel strongly about something, they can always resign and then say whatever they want.”
Back then, Mr. Sonnenfeld, too, praised Mr. Trump’s openness to business views as a welcome change from an Obama administration perceived as anti-business. “He’s very charming and open to new ideas,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said then of Mr. Trump.
Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This week was a different story. After the Charlottesville events and Mr. Trump’s comments, “chief executives have a moral duty to use their position as a bully pulpit and to speak out,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said, adding that George Weyerhaeuser, a former chairman of the giant timber and wood products company bearing his name, had once told him, “We have a license to operate from society, and if we violate that license it can be revoked.”
Advertisement
Or as Mr. Elson told me, “At some point, if identification with the administration becomes so polarizing that it impairs your ability to run the company, then you may have to do something.”
Weighing the benefits of advising a president steeped in controversy versus the risks to shareholders and other constituents from potential consumer boycotts is a calculus that varies widely from company to company.
That new action appears to have arrived.
“The risk of consumer blowback is especially acute for companies like Under Armour, and you’ve seen this elsewhere in the retail space,” Mr. Sonnenfeld said. But he noted that speaking out against a social scourge like racism can also enhance a brand. “Taking a public stand doesn’t mean there’s a misalignment with shareholder interests,” he said. “It can be the right thing to do. Howard Schultz has done this very effectively at Starbucks.”
On Monday, Mr. Schultz publicly criticized the president’s response to the Charlottesville events, and on Wednesday he spoke at an emotional companywide meeting. “I come to you as an American, as a Jew, as a parent, as a grandparent, as an almost 40-year partner of a company I love so dearly,” he said. “I come to you with profound, profound concern about the lack of character, morality, humanity and what this might mean for young children and young generations.”
In such circumstances, collective action by business leaders is often the most effective course, as members of the president’s advisory councils appear to have decided this week. That way no one company bears the brunt of the president’s wrath.
Advertisement
After Mr. Trump’s comments about Charlottesville, Mr. Sonnenfeld has been among those calling for collective opposition. “Fomenting racial unrest is not in the nation’s interest and it’s not in businesses’ interest,” he said. “Divide and conquer has always been Trump’s strategy, and somehow it has worked until now. The way to take a bully down is through collective action.”
The Common Sense column on Thursday, about the calculus of chief executives in deciding whether to take on the president, referred incompletely to President Trump’s comments on Tuesday about the instigators of last weekend’s violence in Charlottesville, Va. He said there was “blame on both sides,” including club-wielding members of what he called the “alt-left”; he did not say that group was solely responsible.
See More »
Go to Home Page »
Advertisement
Supported by
Last year, as it became clear that Donald Trump would win the Republican nomination, analysts on both the right and the left speculated that millions of regular Republicans would be repulsed by his ethnonationalism and misogyny.
Republicans running for election this year have watched the wheels coming off the Trump Train with increasing alarm. How can Republican candidates in down-ballot races survive such a calamitous nominee at the top of their ticket?
This pattern has continued into the present and shows no signs of letting up. In recent days, prominent Republicans, including George W. Bush, Bob Corker, John McCain and Jeff Flake, have warned in various ways that Trump is leading their party and the country in a very dangerous direction. For the moment, however, it is the president’s critics who are butting their heads against a brick wall. The reality is that neither Flake nor Corker is seeking re-election, and both would have struggled to win renomination if they presented themselves as adversaries of President Trump.
Trump enjoys public support (despite private gripes) from most of the 49 other Senate Republicans and 239 House Republicans, including every person in elected leadership.
Why is this still true, despite their “private gripes”? Because of the “strong, sustained support of G.O.P. voters” that the president enjoys.
In an email, Alex Theodoridis, a political scientist at the University of California-Merced, put the state of play in a larger perspective: “The real story of Election 2016 is that the vast majority of Republicans voted for Trump” despite the fact that he was an outlier candidate who “lacked the normal credentials in terms of experience, ideology and character.”
The nomination of an untraditional candidate from outside the party’s mainstream turned the 2016 election into “a stress test for Republican partisanship, and it passed with flying colors,” Theodoridis wrote.
“Republicans identify, at a deep psychological level, more strongly with their party than do Democrats,” according to Theodoridis:
The evidence is rather clear that the modern hyper-polarization is far more characterized by tribal division than by ideological distance. The real story seems to be the growing us-versus-them, in-group/out-group dynamic. If you look at what we call thermometer scores, which have respondents rate their feelings about groups from cold to warm, zero degrees to 100 degrees, the average rating of the other party has dropped from nearly 50 degrees in the early 1980s to temperatures in the 30s today.
Partisanship for many Americans today takes the form of a visceral, even subconscious, attachment to a party group. Our party becomes a part of our self-concept in deep and meaningful ways.
In other words, the assumption that many Republican voters would be repelled by Donald Trump turned out to be wrong; instead party loyalty — “a visceral, even subconscious, attachment” — takes precedence.
A subjective sense of belonging to a group that is internalized to varying degrees, resulting in individual differences in identity strength, a desire to positively distinguish the group from others, and the development of ingroup bias. Moreover, once identified with a group or, in this instance, a political party, members are motivated to protect and advance the party’s status and electoral dominance as a way to maintain their party’s positive distinctiveness.
Traditionally, political scientists have measured partisanship by asking voters the following questions: “Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, a Democrat, an Independent, or what?” Those who say Republican or Democrat are then asked “Would you call yourself a strong Republican/Democrat or a not very strong Republican/Democrat?” Independents are asked “Do you think of yourself as closer to the Republican or Democratic Party?” Respondents are then ranked on a seven point scale from strong Democrat to strong Republican.
Political scientists measure expressive partisanship by looking at responses to more subjective questions, including “How important is being a Democrat or Republican to you?”, “How well does the term Democrat or Republican describe you?” and “When talking about Democrats or Republicans, how often do you use ‘we’ instead of ‘they’?”
It turns out, according to Huddy, Mason and Aarøe, that those who are strong partisans on the basis of emotional and expressive links to their parties feel angrier
when threatened with electoral loss and more positive when reassured of victory. In contrast, those who hold a strong and ideologically consistent position on issues are no more aroused emotionally than others by party threats or reassurances.
These expressive partisans also
They argue that instead of treating polarization in the general electorate as a conflict over competing policies, the better measure is “affective polarization,” which is their term for the way voters “not only increasingly dislike the opposing party,” but are also willing to “impute negative traits to the rank-and-file of the out-party.”
Iyengar and his co-authors contend that
affective polarization has permeated judgments about interpersonal relations, exceeds polarization based on other prominent social cleavages, and that levels of partisan affect are significantly higher in America.
They demonstrate that partisan voters’ approval of their party’s leaders “bears little relationship with their ideological extremity.” Because of this, candidates like Trump “enjoy considerable leeway to stake out positions at odds with the preferences of their supporters.”
Iyengar and Sood buttress their analysis by pointing out that from December 2008 to August 2010, “Sarah Palin’s support never once slipped below 69% among Republicans,” even though her positions were well to the right of the average Republican voter and she was subjected to brutal ridicule in the liberal media.
The growing strength of the kind of partisanship that is widespread today — whether you call it visceral, expressive, affective or tribal — undermines the workings of democratic governance. Not only are Republicans willing to support Trump, but both Democrats and Republicans are inclined to demonize the leadership of the opposing party.
Iyengar and Sood describe this as the “boomerang effect”:
The position attributed to a disliked party perceived as ideologically distant is pushed even further away from the receiver’s position. For instance, a Democrat who encounters a Republican campaign ad on government spending enlarges the discrepancy between herself and the Republican on the issue.
While attention has focused on Trump and the Republican Party (since both are in power), Democrats are hardly exempt from tribalism.
Senator Flake voted with Donald Trump 91% of the time. His retirement is a symbol of a Republican Party whose leaders allow Donald Trump’s divisive politics to flourish as long as it serves their political interests, and who fail to criticize this dangerous president until it’s too late.
Along similar lines, Theodoridis and Stephen Goggin, a political scientist at San Diego State, asked 1609 voters whether two unnamed senators were Democrats or Republicans. One of the two was described as the subject of a story headlined “Senator Wins Anti-Corruption Award,” the other as the subject of a story headlined “Senator Admits to Lying.” Democrats consistently labeled the anti-corruption senator a Democrat and the liar a Republican, while Republicans took the opposite view.
Perhaps most importantly, hyperpolarization is a powerful disincentive to compromise. How can you make concessions to your mortal enemies? To even start negotiations can be viewed, in this context, as surrender.
A number of questions present themselves to us as a nation, most notably: Where are we going? Off a cliff appears to be the answer for now, but who is going to help us climb back up? What can mitigate these developments except disaster? Over time, will we just swing back and forth between parties with no bipartisan achievements at all? What phoenix will rise from the ashes of our tribal partisanship?
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Will President Trump’s assault on the norms underpinning constitutional democracy permanently alter American political life?
On a daily basis, Trump tests the willingness of the public to accept a president who lies as a matter of routine. So far, Trump has persuaded a large swath of America to swallow what he feeds them.
Trump has flourished at a time when trust in basic institutions — organized religion, banks, medical services, Congress, the media, government, you name it — has eroded. His presidency is a product of this erosion, but it is also proving to be an accelerant of the process.
Trump did not so much conjure a dark view of America’s direction as tap into reserves that have lain deep and been sporadically voiced.
Even as democracy has come to be the only form of government widely viewed as legitimate, it has lost the trust of many citizens who no longer believe that democracy can deliver on their most pressing needs and preferences.
The danger, they argue, cannot be underestimated:
As democracies deconsolidate, the prospect of democratic breakdown becomes increasingly likely — even in parts of the world that have long been spared such instability.
Trump is the most prominent of the right-wing populist politicians continuing to gain strength both here and in Europe (despite some electoral setbacks), but because the viewpoint he represents is now so widespread, he is in one sense personally irrelevant — a symptom rather than a cause.
Liberal democracies are better equipped than authoritarian states to grapple with the inevitable conflicts that arise in diverse societies, including the threat of terrorist violence. But they also contain the seeds of their own destruction: if they fail to deal with these challenges and allow xenophobic populists to hijack the public debate, then the votes of frustrated and disaffected citizens will increasingly go to the anti-immigrant right, societies will become less open, nativist parties will grow more powerful, and racist rhetoric that promotes a narrow and exclusionary sense of national identity will be legitimized.
I contacted several of the participants at the Yale gathering and was struck by their anxiety over the future prospects of democratic governance.
First and foremost, Przeworski stresses,
there is nothing "undemocratic" about the electoral victory of Donald Trump or the rise of anti-establishment parties in Europe.
These parties and candidates, he points out:
Do not advocate replacing elections by some other way of selecting rulers. They are ugly — most people view racism and xenophobia as ugly — but these parties do campaign under the slogan of returning to ‘the people’ the power usurped by elites, which they see as strengthening democracy. In the words of a Trump advertisement, “Our movement is about replacing a failed and corrupt political establishment with a new government controlled by you, the American people.”
In support of Przeworski’s argument, it is clear that the success of the Trump campaign in winning the Republican nomination was the result of a classic democratic insurgency: the Republican electorate’s rejection of its party’s establishment.
The danger in the United States, in Przeworski’s view, is the possibility that the Trump administration will use the power of the presidency to undermine the procedures and institutions essential to the operation of democracy:
That the incumbent administration would intimidate hostile media and create a propaganda machine of its own, that it would politicize the security agencies, that it would harass political opponents, that it would use state power to reward sympathetic private firms, that it would selectively enforce laws, that it would provoke foreign conflicts to monger fear, that it would rig elections.
Przeworski believes that
such a scenario would not be unprecedented. The United States has a long history of waves of political repression: the “Red Scare” of 1917-20, the internment of Japanese citizens during World War II, the McCarthy period, the Nixon presidency.
My big worry is not simply that formal institutions have been eroded, but that the informal norms that underpin them are even more important and even more fragile. Norms of transparency, conflict of interest, civil discourse, respect for the opposition and freedom of the press, and equal treatment of citizens are all consistently undermined, and without these the formal institutions become brittle.
Trump, in Grzymala-Busse’s assessment, “articulates a classic populist message that we see in Europe: the elite establishment is a collusive cartel uninterested in the problems of ‘the people,’” and, she continued, he has begun to follow the path of European populist leaders:
Much of Trump’s language and actions are also familiar: there is a standard authoritarian populist template, developed in Hungary and faithfully followed in Poland and in Turkey: first, go after the courts, then the media, then the civil society, churches, universities.
The attacks on the courts, media and universities
are not simply the ravings of a lunatic, but an established strategy for undermining democratic oversight and discrediting the opposition.
not sure Trumpism per se will survive Trump. But I do think it is the current embodiment of a right-wing populism that is likely to remain the basis of internal opposition within the Republican Party or be the basis of a split in the Party, leading to two new parties.
Some form of right-wing populism, Levi argued,
is already a competitive force in general elections. And it is once again a force in competitive elections in democracies world-wide.
She added that there was no guarantee that right-wing populism “will not transform into the fascist and Nazi forms.”
Unless the Democratic Party in this country and moderate parties in the rest of the world “find a way to address the populace’s underlying economic insecurity and deterioration in the perceived (and actual in many cases) standard of living, the possibility for irreparable damage does exist,” Levi wrote:
Otherwise, both confidence in democratic government, measured by the extent it is a reliable provider of needed goods and services, including domestic and international security, and its legitimacy, the normative belief in its right to rule, will decline significantly and dangerously — perhaps even to the point of no return.
While white identitarianism, anger over immigration and economic dislocation are often cited as causes of the emergence of right-wing populism, another argument is that there is a growing segment of the electorate that is alienated from cultural norms they see as imposed on them by a ruling elite — a repressive elite; politically correct and socially remote.
This constituency of the disengaged and profoundly alienated provides a base of support in the United States and Europe for populist leaders who, in Howe’s view, fit the Trump mold:
They compete in the democratic process, yet with words and actions that convey disregard for core democratic principles such as the rule of law, minority rights, and checks and balances on executive power. At the same time, a number of these individuals are prone to brazen, dubious, and sometimes aggressive behaviors that suggest outsized egos, scant respect for others, and a degree of contempt for social norms.
the rise of antidemocratic sentiment has less to do with dysfunction in the political arena than with corrosive changes that have reshaped the social and cultural landscape more generally.
These corrosive changes include an increase in the number of citizens who say it is O.K. to
claim government benefits to which one is not entitled; take a bribe in the course of one’s duties; cheat on taxes; and avoid a public-transit fare.
When answers to these questions were correlated with political attitudes, Howe found that
indifferent feelings toward democracy are interlaced with a broader set of self-interested and antisocial attitudes that are present among a substantial minority of the U.S. population.
He then argues that the
broader constellation of transgressive and antisocial attitudes among a subsection of the public is an important force behind rising disregard for democratic norms.
Those with a high-school education or less are substantially more likely than those with a college degree to express skeptical views about democracy as well as tolerance of various antisocial behaviors, by variances that range from 5 to 30 percentage points across the questions.
What makes the United States so distinctive? One reason may be that in recent years U.S. democracy has become appallingly dysfunctional. It suffers from 1) virtual paralysis at the top, as exemplified by the willingness of Congress to shut down the federal government, regardless of the damage to the country’s credit, after failing to get its way via normal procedures in a budget standoff with the White House; 2) massive increases in income inequality — greater than those found in any other established democracy, with most of the population’s real income declining during the past few decades despite substantial economic growth; and 3) the disproportionate and growing political influence of billionaires, as money plays a greater role in U.S. politics than in almost any other democracy.
The economic boom in the post-World War II years “produced rising security and an intergenerational shift toward self-expression values,” Inglehart wrote, but “in recent decades most advanced industrial societies have experienced economic stagnation, rising unemployment coupled with massive immigration, and the worst recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s.”
The resulting “high levels of existential insecurity,” Inglehart argues,
are conducive to authoritarianism, xenophobia, and rejection of new cultural norms. The economic stagnation and rising inequality of recent decades have led to increasing support for authoritarian, xenophobic political candidates, from Marine le Pen in France to Donald Trump in the United States.
American capitalism, Bell wrote,
For the moment, the Republican Party has become the main battleground for the struggle over authoritarianism, xenophobia and the erosion of received standards.
To fear the world we have organized and led for three-quarters of a century, to abandon the ideals we have advanced around the globe, to refuse the obligations of international leadership and our duty to remain “the last best hope of earth” for the sake of some half-baked, spurious nationalism cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve problems is as unpatriotic as an attachment to any other tired dogma of the past that Americans consigned to the ash heap of history.
Politicians in the Trump mold
wreck the informal rules of civility that democracies require to survive. Once voters are activated along violent lines and fervently believe the myths propagated by the demagogue, the dam is broken; the ordinary rules of democratic politics no longer apply, and there is no telling what might come next.
The Founding Fathers tried to protect us from the threat they knew, the tyranny that overcame ancient democracy. Today, our political order faces new threats, not unlike the totalitarianism of the twentieth century. We are no wiser than the Europeans who saw democracy yield to fascism, Nazism, or communism. Our one advantage is that we might learn from their experience. Now is a good time to do so.
Trump takes his own particular combination of ignorance, bluster and malice, and sets it off like a nuclear bomb of misinformation. The fallout spreads throughout the country, and no volume of corrections and fact checks can stop it. It wasn’t even part of a thought-out strategy, just a loathsome impulse that found its way out of the president’s mouth to spread far and wide.
Trump’s recklessness is disturbing enough on its own. But what makes it especially threatening is that much of the public — well beyond the 40 percent of the electorate that has shown itself to be unshakable in its devotion to the president — seems to be slowly accommodating itself to its daily dose of the Trump reality show, accepting the rhetorical violence that Trump inflicts on basic standards of truth as the new normal.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
____
Advertisement
____
Advertisement
“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.
____
4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”
Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.
____
“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”
____
Advertisement
The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.
Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.
____
The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.
____
A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.
____
He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.
Advertisement
“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”
____
Have a great weekend.
____
Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
See More »
Go to Home Page »
Advertisement
The Tet offensive was a turning point in the Vietnam War for Vietnamese nationalism. With North Vietnam having been turned over to the Communists by the French in 1954, Vietnam’s southern provinces had become a haven for non-Communist nationalists, just as the western states of Germany were a haven for German non-Communists and the southern half of Korea was a secure state for Korean nationalists.
In the new state of South Vietnam, with American assistance, President Ngo Dinh Diem successfully built a functioning non-Communist state. Responding to this resilience of the nationalists, in 1959, the Communist regime in Hanoi decided to destroy what their rivals had achieved. Their intrusion into the internal affairs of South Vietnam made considerable headway, and set off what we now call the American war in Vietnam. But it took the Tet offensive to bring the various strains of southern nationalism together.
In early March 1968, the American ambassador in Saigon, Ellsworth Bunker, reported to President Lyndon B. Johnson on a remarkable change among the South Vietnamese.
Instead of falling apart, the Army of the Republic of Vietnam was growing — in February, after the Tet attacks, 10,084 South Vietnamese volunteered for military service, versus 3,924 the previous February. Some 10,600 draftees reported for duty that month, versus 4,006 the previous February.
Advertisement
It wasn’t just that new recruits were signing up; veteran soldiers were staying, and stepping up. Of the 155 South Vietnamese regular maneuver battalions, 118 were rated combat effective. In the field, companies of the South Vietnamese Regional Forces, a militia that manned outposts and guarded critical infrastructure, were at fighting strength, with 99 out of a 123-man complement present for duty. The platoons of another militia, the Popular Forces, which guarded villages, were averaging 29 men out of a full complement of 35, another unprecedented turnout. The new civil defense militia was joined by 19,000 volunteers in 20 provinces.
This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
South Vietnam’s president, Nguyen van Thieu, stepped up to provide more vigorous leadership. He replaced corrupt and incompetent officials and personally headed the recovery committee charged with rebuilding destroyed or damaged infrastructure and buildings and resettling over 500,000 people who had fled Communist control. And elsewhere in national politics, new, surprising political coalitions formed to vociferously oppose Hanoi’s aggression.
These determined nationalist efforts continued to gain momentum during the ensuing months and years. A new pacification and development program, placed under village leadership, largely defeated Hanoi’s southern followers in the National Liberation Front (also known as the Viet Cong). By 1973, the N.L.F. had just 25,000 fighters left. South Vietnam, by contrast, had 748,000 combat troops, along with an additional million citizens in lightly armed self-defense units. The nationalists controlled 90 percent of South Vietnam’s population, 85 percent of which lived in secure communities.
Advertisement
South Vietnam’s economy grew continuously. Elections were held in all villages and provinces, and several times for the national Senate and House of Representatives, bringing into power a wide range of political outlooks, without anyone seriously proposing surrender to Hanoi’s one-party dictatorship.
The strength of South Vietnam’s newly energized military held up for years; during the 1972 summer offensive, in which Hanoi threw its entire army into the south to take advantage of the withdrawal of American ground troops, the South Vietnamese successfully defended their positions, relying on the United States for air support only.
What made this resistance to Communist aggression so effective? It was not as if the South Vietnamese had suddenly discovered nationalist pride in March 1968. Rather, it reached back to millenniums-old traditions of ethnic pride.
Put in simple terms, the fundamental cultural norm for many Vietnamese is dependence on the will of heaven, which gives individualism to each Vietnamese, provides the people good or bad fortune, and mandates a sovereign state for them. It’s also a bad fit for communism, which is Western in its premises about class warfare and government ownership of the means of production.
Of course, historians have largely accepted the notion that the North Vietnamese leadership was at least as nationalist as it was communist. But in fact, that conflation was intentional, and artificial: As early as 1945, party leaders realized that they could never rally Vietnamese to the banner of Communism, so they used the tactic of working through a supposedly non-Communist front, an approach that the Soviets had promoted for the 1920s struggle against feudalism in China, and then against fascism globally.
The ties between Communists and nationalists were always tenuous, precisely because the Communists recognized their incompatibility. In 1945, the Communists outlawed two nationalist parties, and murdered the founder of one of them. Two years later, they murdered Huynh Phu So, the charismatic young man who had founded the nationalist Hoa Hao religion in the Mekong Delta in 1939.
As late as 1960, the 10-point plan proposed by North Vietnam for the formation of the National Liberation Front made no a single mention of communism as the future for South Vietnam. Instead, it leaned heavily on anti-Americanism and the overthrow of the Saigon regime that it said, playing on traditional Vietnamese nationalism, lacked merit-virtue.
So, in 1968, when ordinary South Vietnamese considered the military failure of the Communists in the Tet offensive, the failure of their fellow citizens to come out in support of Hanoi, and the success of South Vietnamese forces in fighting back, many concluded that heaven had turned the tides of fate their way.
Advertisement
Obviously, even this revitalized nationalist spirit alone wasn’t enough to defeat North Vietnam’s aggression. In 1975, Hanoi conquered Saigon, after the Americans withdrew their forces and then, just a few years later, much of their financial and military support.
But it’s also important to understand that the impetus for the American withdrawal was, in large part, a misunderstanding about Vietnamese nationalism by the antiwar movement, which came to dominate much American thinking about the war. While there were American radicals who indeed embraced Ho Chi Minh’s communist vision, the movement in general preferred to see him as a nationalist first, fighting for his country against colony and empire.
It’s true that Ho fought for independence from France, and then against the Americans for a unified, independent Vietnam. In that limited sense he was true to deep Vietnamese aspirations for cultural autonomy. But that narrow demand for independence did not make him a nationalist, especially in the Vietnamese tradition. Ho wanted independence for a country to be ruled in its culture, society, economy and politics by his party alone.
Except for a relatively small contingent that found French rule acceptable — some Catholics, some French-speaking intellectuals and some well-off families — most every Vietnamese wanted independence without communism. Had the Americans understood this, they might have better understood what motivated South Vietnam, and not moved so quickly to abandon them just as they were coalescing into a unified, motivated political and military force.
Stephen B. Young is the global executive director of the Caux Round Table. He worked for the United States Agency for International Development in South Vietnam during the Vietnam War.
See More »
Go to Home Page »
Advertisement
Supported by
For Democrats, the warning shots are coming thick and fast.
What can Democrats do?
It’s clear that the Democrats have lost many whites because of whites’ attitudes about race. We can see that over time, whites’ racial attitudes have become increasingly linked to their party identity, with more racially conservative whites identifying more with the Republican Party.
Disrupting this linkage is an uphill battle for Democrats:
Unfortunately, changing hearts and minds when it comes to racial attitudes is no easy task. What is more, there’s growing evidence that some of the previously effective tactics Democrats have used to call out Republican politicians for race-baiting no longer work especially well. If Republican political candidates continue to stoke racial attitudes and anti-immigrant sentiment, there’s reason to think they’ll continue to be politically effective, and it’s not entirely clear what Democrats can do to inoculate themselves against this strategy in the near term.
The greatest threat to the next Democratic nominee for President isn’t white working class voters, but in fact our inability to cobble back and hold together the core of Obama’s back to back majority coalitions. The “protest vote” by millennials — HRC’s significant underperformance with younger voters, particularly younger voters of color — is actually where she was most notably off of Obama’s performance in the overall battleground aggregate.
Belcher pointed out that
when you have between 6 to 9 percent of younger voters of color breaking 3rd Party in their ‘protest vote’ that kills the Democrat’s chance to reach Obama’s margins most notably in places like Florida, Michigan and Wisconsin.
In terms of Congressional and state legislative contests, Belcher argues, “we can and should do better among non-college white voters” because they are crucial to the outcome in many districts. But doing so, he argues, will be a tremendous challenge:
When Trump stands up in front of his audience at rallies during the campaign and tells them he’s going to give them their country back, Trump is having a conversation about race. Our response is that we are going to raise the minimum wage — we are having a conversation about economics. We are playing checkers while Trump is playing chess. And he continues to do so as he focuses on things like Black N.F.L. players taking a knee. Until Democrats can inoculate against some of the heightened angst, most prominently found among blue collar whites, about the changing face of America, they will struggle to compete for white non-college voters.
Significantly, Belcher contends, the anxiety about rapid social change is politically salient. Offering economic palliatives will not adequately address that anxiety, he said:
Heightened tribal polarization is the primary hurdle to Democrats’ ability to better compete and win white non-college voters. Avoiding that conversation isn’t going to work. We can’t solve for that angst with a promise to simply help make college more affordable. Until we can better engage these voters in a conversation that lessens their very real angst about the changes that are happening in the country and pivot to a compelling narrative about how we all win the future together or divided we will certainly lose it to our competitors, Democrats will struggle mightily to compete for white non-college voters broadly and particularly in The South.
Republican strategists seem to understand the consequences of these changes. You can see this difference when contrasting the slogan “Make America Great Again” with the slogan “I’m with her.” The subject in the Trump tagline is America. The phrase directly addresses growing anxiety about the rate of change. The subject in the Clinton tagline is the candidate herself.
This difference played into a second Democratic liability, according to Lupia:
Many liberal elites, who see right-leaning voters as blindly following the edicts of an unbending dogma on many issues, have little to no awareness of their own blind allegiance to an unbending dogma on many issues. This blind spot, which has only grown in recent years, makes the left exceptionally easy to troll. In other words, the left’s lack of awareness of the excesses of their own evolving dogma makes it increasingly easy for Breitbart, Fox News, and similar-minded others to portray liberals as hypocritical and out of touch with the day-to-day lives of many Americans.
Voters who cast Republican ballots last year experience disproportionately higher levels of both cultural and economic anxiety than Democratic voters, Lupia argued, but “many people on the left mock this uncertainty and those who feel this uncertainty are quite good at knowing when they are being mocked.”
The problem is both substantive and cultural, and hence the Democratic response has to be on two levels. Substantively, the party needs to develop a stronger program regarding the job opportunities and economic prospects of these angry white voters. If all the jobs and money are on the coasts, and the industries that used to support workers are increasingly automated and subject to complex trading across NAFTA countries, then we need to make sure that US workers have the skills to participate in that economy. We made only halfhearted efforts with respect to NAFTA and when they did not work well because workers did not want to move from their communities or because the job skills they got were not adequate, the party moved on.
Cain is critical of the lack of attention Democrats paid to economic issues in 2016:
Hillary taking support behind the blue curtain for granted is symptomatic of the party’s shift to middle and upper middle class professional and creative class workers. The party needs to offer policies that assist them, and it has to be something that moves forward towards engaging the new economy, not retreating to the past a la Trump.
In Cain’s view, the lack of focus on the economic needs of the heartland is of a piece with the sociocultural remoteness of Democratic elites:
The cultural problem is Democrats looking down their noses at blue collar work and flyover country. First, cut that shit out. Second, let’s get back to celebrating the work of those who fix pipes, install wind farms, etc. Many of us in Democrat bubble lands are just too full of ourselves. Also, let’s look at how to upgrade vocational schools and training to make it more prestigious, not places where people are relegated to because they cannot compete in a college prep curriculum.
If you look at the Democratic platform, or Hillary’s speeches on the economy, Democrats have a raft of good ideas, loads of sound policies that would make life better for the white working class. So why have they rejected us?
White working-class Americans are “dying before their time,” Begala wrote in an email, specifically citing the rise in alcoholism, cirrhosis, drug addiction, overdoses, suicide and poisoning:
If the life expectancy of, say, Somali immigrants in Minnesota suddenly took a dive, Democrats would be falling all over each other trying to ascertain the causes and advocate the cures. We owe white working-class Americans no less.
Begala stresses that Democrats must show respect for the culture of the white working class:
As a straight, white, married, gun-owning, church-going man, many of my hunting buddies feel like Democrats have contempt for them.
More than any set of issues, the first thing that we Democrats need to do is to deal with the perception that the party is controlled by elites on the coasts who look down on the rest of the country. If we cannot overcome that core disconnect, we will never have a chance at getting their vote. That was part of Bill Clinton’s success as a politician.
Because the Democratic Party has been moving steadily to the left in recent decades, it will be hard for them to simultaneously appeal to the ideologically liberal base that has been created along with this shift and to white middle Americans who view their interests to be in direct conflict with some of those who make up the liberal bloc of the Democratic coalition.
One approach to “getting Middle America to identify with and see themselves as partners alongside racial and ethnic minorities, environmentalists, feminists, young Americans, secular Americans, and other groups who are squarely in the Democratic coalition,” she suggests, would be a concerted effort to recruit “candidates who represent the slice of middle and working class Americans whose lead they could follow and rally behind.”
In the short run, there is little they can do. The disconnect between Democrats and rust-belt working-class whites is not about any recent Democratic candidate or particular policy, but about fundamental features of human psychology reacting to large-scale economic and social change. The rightward political shift by rust-belt whites fits a long pattern of backlash politics that happens when places diversify. The backlash that moves voters to the right is amplified when people feel economically and socially insecure, so the ingredients in the rust belt are perfect to pull voters into the Republican Party.
In theory, Democrats could shift to the right to appeal to these white voters, but, Enos points out, party leaders
are not going to abandon their ideological commitment to immigration and racial equality and they are not going to abandon the nonwhite voters who are a significant part of their constituency.
In this context, according to Enos,
the best they can currently do is do a better job of mobilizing nonwhite voters in these states and the white voters they still have. There is something to be said for the strategy of nominating a presidential candidate that connects with these voters, perhaps even a nonwhite candidate who mobilizes the Obama coalition.
There must be real choices presented at election time — choices involving more than a selection between two sincere-sounding, photogenic graduates of some campaign consultant’s academy of political and dramatic arts. The candidates must come to the voters with programs that are comprehensible and relevant to our problems; and they must have the kind of backing that makes it possible for them to act on their pledges once in office. The only instrument I know of that can nominate such candidates, commit them to a program, and give them the leverage and alliances in government that can enable them to keep their promises is the political party.
Forty-five years later an era of hyper-partisanship has taken hold. “Today,” Iyengar and Westwood write, “the sense of partisan identification is all encompassing.”
Real choices raise the possibility that there might be real breakthroughs, real discoveries and real advances. Perhaps the problem is not that we have had too much change, but that we haven’t had enough.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Common Sense
Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul who is executive chairman of 21st Century Fox, is one of President Trump’s closest allies and advisers. Fox News has been the president’s most reliable media champion. Mr. Murdoch and the president have each publicly described the other as “my good friend.”
Because AT&T and Time Warner aren’t direct competitors, and the suit was such a break with Justice Department tradition, it gave rise to speculation that the real motive was to punish CNN, the Time Warner-owned Trump punching bag.
The $52.4 billion Disney-Fox deal, in which Disney is acquiring Fox’s venerable movie studio and the bulk of its other entertainment assets, poses the opposite problem: 21st Century Fox is controlled by the Murdoch family.
Even though antitrust decisions are supposed to be independent of political influence, Mr. Trump didn’t hesitate to weigh in when the deal was announced. “I know that the president spoke with Rupert Murdoch earlier today, congratulated him on the deal and thinks that, to use one of the president’s favorite words, that this could be a great thing for jobs,” the White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters.
“It looks bad to me,” said Christopher L. Sagers, an antitrust professor at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law.
Larry Downes, an antitrust expert and a fellow at the Georgetown McDonough School of Business, agreed. “The government’s theory in Time Warner very much applies to Fox and Disney,” he said. If the government “doesn’t challenge this, it will look very weird,” he added. “But I’m not sure appearances matter to this administration.”
“I have never been instructed by the White House on this or any other transaction under review by the antitrust division,” he said of the AT&T case.
That’s unlikely to stop speculation about his division’s handling of the latest blockbuster. Antitrust experts told me that in many ways the Disney-Fox deal raises even more antitrust questions than does the combination of AT&T and Time Warner. That’s because it’s both a merger of direct competitors — a so-called horizontal merger, which typically get close scrutiny — and has some of the same vertical elements that caused the Justice Department to try to block the AT&T-Time Warner merger.
Whether a combination of the Fox film and television studios with Disney’s entertainment arm would raise red flags under Justice Department guidelines depends on how the government defines the market. The deal would reduce the number of Hollywood studios to five from six. Last year, Disney’s studio accounted for 26.4 percent of the domestic theatrical box office, the largest share, and Fox was third, with 12.9 percent. Although the combined studios would have had close to 40 percent of the market in 2016, that’s typically not enough to run afoul of the department’s merger guidelines, Mr. Sagers pointed out, unless the government decides to define the market differently.
If the market is as narrow as films about superheroes, and Disney gains control of Fox’s “X-Men” franchise, that would almost surely trigger concerns.
There are more serious antitrust issues about Fox’s regional sports networks, given ESPN’s dominance of cable sports. If that market is measured by cable sports revenue, the Disney-owned ESPN is so dominant that nearly any acquisition of another cable sports provider, even Fox’s relatively small regional networks, would trigger antitrust review.
“From a horizontal perspective, sports is the main issue,” said Scott Hemphill, a law professor and antitrust expert at New York University School of Law.
If the Justice Department really wanted to be aggressive, it might also invoke the words of former Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black, who wrote in a landmark opinion, “The widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public.”
Under terms of the proposed deal, Fox shareholders would own about 25 percent of Disney in an all-stock transaction. Given the concentrated market for cable news, a combination of Fox News and Disney’s ABC would most likely not have passed antitrust muster. But depending on how much influence the Murdochs are able to exert at Disney, the family might achieve much the same objective, perhaps with a board seat, or, as some have speculated, if James Murdoch joins Disney as an executive and even becomes a potential successor to the Disney chief executive, Robert Iger.
Such speculation may not be all that far-fetched. “Reports suggest that James Murdoch is apparently in line for a senior management role within Disney as part of the deal,” said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst for Cowen & Co. in a note to clients Thursday.
Mr. Iger said during a conference call Thursday that James Murdoch’s future role, if any, hasn’t been decided.
Mr. Hemphill, the law professor and antitrust expert, pointed to an emerging antitrust doctrine called common ownership, which looks beyond the formality of separate companies to examine who actually exerts control.
All those concerns are based on traditional antitrust review standards. But since the case against AT&T and Time Warner was filed, those standards have been anything but traditional.
Vertical mergers like that of AT&T and Time Warner — AT&T buys content from Time Warner, but doesn’t compete directly with it — used to be approved almost routinely, albeit often with conditions. No longer. “We’re in a topsy-turvy antitrust world,” Mr. Downes said.
One of the government’s concerns in its effort to block the AT&T deal, according to its complaint, is the risk that AT&T would withhold Time Warner content from rivals like Netflix, thus hurting consumers.
But Disney, as it prepares to start its own direct-to-consumer Netflix rival, is already withholding some content, and has said it would withhold much more as existing agreements expire. It will almost surely pull 21st Century Fox content, like “X Men,” the planned “Avatar” sequels and TV shows like “The Simpsons” and “The Americans,” and offer them on its own service.
Mr. Downes said he doesn’t see how the Justice Department would distinguish between the two deals, should it approve the Fox-Disney transaction.
How Mr. Delrahim and the antitrust division handle the Fox-Disney review remains to be seen, of course. But whatever he decides, the shadow of Mr. Murdoch will loom large.
“I hesitate to make any predictions about Trump and what he’ll do,” Mr. Sagers said. “But there’s a long tradition that the White House shouldn’t get involved in these decisions.”
He said he was “reluctant to believe” that Mr. Delrahim would allow politics or Mr. Trump’s friendship with Mr. Murdoch to influence his decision — “but maybe I’m being naïve.”
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Democrats point to a thousand reasons that Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election. Here is another.
Trump’s margins in rural and exurban counties were off the charts. For example, in Madison County, an exurban area outside Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Romney’s margin over Mr. Obama was 20.4 percentage points; Mr. Trump’s margin over Mrs. Clinton was 39.8.
Plouffe added that this “happened in thousands of counties throughout the country, and it added up quickly.”
As a result, Austin continues,
Immigration has become an unambiguous factor in this racially charged Midwestern landscape. While immigrant-rich states like Arizona, California, and Florida are often at the center of immigration policy discussions, the political debate about the role of immigrants burns hottest in the heartland.
Austin went on, in an email, to provide more detail about the power of immigration to move white voters into the Trump column:
The "rural” voters here are some farmers, but more likely, as in the hinterlands outside Flint, Monroe, Toledo, Erie, or Janesville, Wisconsin, they are mostly white, working class blue collar workers or retirees, many, sadly, who fled their small cities to escape blacks. They are anxious about the economic prospects for their future, their aging communities (the kids have fled), making folks mad. And now all these immigrants come and are changing the society!! Just as Macomb County, where working class white voters fled Detroit in advance of blacks, now sees nearby communities like Hamtramck becoming (in their view) a Bangladeshi bazaar — and they don’t like that. And they are easily fanned to blame those folks.
They believe that we have "opened up our borders, they pretty much made it a free for all" which means fewer jobs and greater demands on government services and more concerns about safety.
Greenberg’s report is replete with revealing quotes from the focus groups:
I went and finally signed up for Medicaid, and I’m standing in the damn welfare office, and I’m looking around at all of these people that can’t even say hello to me in English. But they’re all there with appointments for their workers, which means they have the health care, they have the food stamps.... If you can come from somewhere else, why can’t we all get it?
And:
My grandson’s school, I went to as a child, there are hardly any — I’ll just say American families there now. It’s mostly Middle Eastern and people all standing outside waiting for their kid, to pick them up at the end of the day, and nobody’s speaking English. Everyone’s speaking other languages, which, there’s nothing wrong with other languages.
And:
You know what, like where I’m working, at Kroger, how many Spanish people I wait on. The universal language — I don’t care, if you smile — hello, I don’t care what country you’re from, but some of these people, they act like they can’t do that, even. It’s like, "You know what? You’re in America." Get with either — you can learn to say hello, goodbye, thank you, in our language. This is America.
Three developments are taking place in the rust belt simultaneously.
First, as recently as 2000, many of the key Midwestern counties that moved from blue to red in 2016 had very few minority residents. Since then, their immigrant populations began to increase at a rapid rate well above the national average. Second, at the same time that immigrants are moving in, younger native-born residents are leaving in droves to seek employment elsewhere, while the remaining white population is aging and is often hostile to change. It is the perfect formula for cultural conflict, and Trump proved to be the perfect candidate to exploit it. Finally, these changes are taking place in a region that Austin points out is home to “15 of the nation’s 25 major metro areas with the sharpest black-white segregation,” making it even more unreceptive to nonwhites than other sections of the country.
Arrayed on a diversity index, Michigan with an index of 42, Wisconsin at 35, Ohio at 36, and Pennsylvania at 41, all rank in the bottom twenty — i.e., the least diverse — of the fifty states. The diversity index for the entire country is substantially higher at 63. Examples of states with very high diversity indexes include California at 79; Nevada at 73; Texas at 70; and New York at 70.
A rapid rate of growth in the percentage of immigrants in communities that have in the past experienced little diversity is particularly explosive.
Growth in local Hispanic populations triggers threat and opposition to immigration among whites residing in contexts with few initial Hispanics, but reduces threat and opposition to immigration among whites residing in contexts with large pre-existing Hispanic populations.
In other words, communities that are close to 100 percent white will react intensely to a modest increase in foreign-born residents, while highly diverse communities will shrug it off.
Democratic strategists were unprepared for the depth of the upheaval that shifted the balance of power across the Rust Belt.
First, the people leaving tend to be younger and more open-minded, willing to risk moving to a faster growing section of the country. Second, those left behind tend to be older, more closed-minded and more set in their ways.
These “left-behind” populations tend to be older and more backward rather than future oriented — less likely to embrace the nation’s new diversity and the emerging global economy. This was surely the case among 2016 voters in rural parts of swing states that helped to elect Trump as president.
Frey noted how crucial many of these declining, left-behind, nonmetropolitan communities were to Trump’s victory:
In Pennsylvania, nonmetropolitan residents comprised just 12 percent of the population and 10 percent of voters, but Trump’s nonmetropolitan margin of 287,000 votes overtook Clinton’s metropolitan advantage of 243,000 votes.
the depopulation makes the inflow of even modest numbers of immigrants add up to more dramatic demographic change than would be otherwise felt.
Further compounding the rightward movement of these white voters is their animosity to nonwhites.
In Macomb, the bellwether Midwestern county, Austin of the Michigan Economic Center found that whites in virtually all-white communities react most strongly to demographic changes taking place in close-by neighborhoods:
All the recent population growth in the county — 3 percent over the past six years — has come from minorities, as the white population continues to drop. New residents include a 34 percent increase in African-Americans, a 27 percent increase in Asians, and a 14 percent increase in Latinos. And migrants from abroad account for fully 60 percent of the county’s recent population increase.
Looking at the 23 small cities and towns that make up Macomb County, Austin determined that between 2012 and 2016 each one had shifted toward Republican voting, with the increase ranging from one percent to 14 percent, but that “the shift was greatest in the white enclave communities.”
The consequences of neighborhood increases in foreign born and black residents can be seen in Austin’s data.
In the whitest Macomb communities, averaging 3.4 percent foreign born and 4.9 percent African-American, Trump’s gains over Obama were largest, 12.4 percentage points. In the more diverse Macomb communities, close to white enclaves, 8.3 percent foreign born and 9.3 percent African-American, Trump’s gains were smaller, averaging 7.2 percentage points.
When faced with a sudden, destabilizing change in local demographics, and when salient national rhetoric politicizes that demographic change, people’s views turn anti-immigrant.
In an email, Hopkins elaborated on his thesis: “sudden influxes of immigrants generate hostility, likely because they destabilize long-time residents’ sense of their communities’ identity.”
Looking back on the 2016 election and the importance of the immigration issue, what stands out is the failure of the Clinton campaign to address the immigration concerns of the Obama-to-Trump voters who played such a key role in the outcome. Campaign strategists may not have been aware of the intensity with which these voters viewed the issue, or they may have decided that given their target voters, the Democratic Party was not at liberty to moderate its unwavering pro-immigration stance.
Hillary has been committed to the immigrant rights community throughout her career. As president, she will work to fix our broken immigration system and stay true to our fundamental American values: that we are a nation of immigrants, and we treat those who come to our country with dignity and respect — and that we embrace immigrants, not denigrate them.
Eight of the nine policies described in Clinton’s statement are pro-immigration, and the ninth refers only peripherally to enforcement:
Enforce immigration laws humanely. Immigration enforcement must be humane, targeted, and effective. Hillary will focus resources on detaining and deporting those individuals who pose a violent threat to public safety, and ensure refugees who seek asylum in the U.S. have a fair chance to tell their stories.
The Democrats have moved from seeking to manage and champion the nation’s growing immigrant diversity to seeming to champion immigrant rights over American citizens’. Instinctively and not surprisingly, the Democrats embraced the liberal values of America’s dynamic and best-educated metropolitan areas, seeming not to respect the values or economic stress of older voters in small-town and rural America.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Musical theater history, no less than the regular kind, is told by the winners. Triumphs like “Show Boat,” “West Side Story” and “Hamilton” are the works that give you the shape of their times, both as social documents and as cultural products.
That’s never been disqualifying data for the series, which began its 25th season on Wednesday night at City Center with this unusual entry, a revue made up of scenes and songs from shows that opened between 1957 and 1974. The Encores! mandate has always been to present items from Broadway’s trunk that, despite intermittent felicities, were otherwise unlikely to emerge from it again.
Sometimes the idea has outwitted itself in the process, as when “Chicago” and “Wonderful Town” proved surprisingly viable, and moved on to commercial runs. More often, Encores! has honored the lesser work of the form by letting us hear it in full and as close as possible to the way first-nighters did.
But if seven or eight minutes of “Wildcat” is long enough to reveal how bad the show is otherwise, it is not long enough to let us understand how it might also have been a little bit good.
And that’s the way “Hey, Look Me Over!” — shaggily directed by Marc Bruni — proceeds. Though Mr. Martin’s interstitial jokes are often funny, they are not substantive enough to make the selections seem anything more than convenient.
He is oddly unopinionated about the actual material. From “All American,” the second show extracted, we thus get three numbers by Charles Strouse and Lee Adams, all charming (especially when sung by Judy Kuhn) but only obscurely related to one another and begging for tart commentary. Surely we deserve to know from Mr. Man in Chair why we are not being offered the musical’s campy showstopper, an astonishingly homoerotic beefcake parade called “Physical Fitness” that would have made more sense with the evening’s concept.
That’s a shame because a substantive selection from a show that focuses on black characters would have helped support the theme that gradually emerges from “Hey, Look Me Over!” Leaving aside (for the moment) the selections from “Milk and Honey,” in which American widows looking for husbands tour Israel in 1961, the rest of the evening seems to be wrestling, albeit at several removes, with the transformation of American identity that was and remains the key subject of musicals from midcentury on.
“Wildcat” is about frontier spirit, “All American” about immigration; in the second act, “Greenwillow” (with a strange and haunting score by Frank Loesser) is about wanderlust, and “Sail Away,” though it’s by Noël Coward, is about the emerging American booboisie.
The best musicals are solid-state, everywhere dense with their core ideas. They are excerptable. Lesser shows may produce a song or two that can kill in the cabaret — or are even worth a full staging at Encores! — but they fall apart when sliced into wedges as they are here. Despite references to current politics (there’s a nice surprise after the curtain call, so stick around), the lack of thematic unity turns out to be more damaging than the Encores! team evidently imagined. Attempts to repair that with contemporary commentary are undercut by scenes like the ones from “Milk and Honey,” which for obvious reasons ignore politics entirely.
At least there’s a hora (choreographed by Denis Jones) in “Milk and Honey”; this production is otherwise too light on dance. In the final number — inevitably “Give My Regards to Broadway” from “George M!” — we finally get a thrilling taste of what tapping can do to tighten loose material. (We also get another little surprise, which I won’t spoil.) But for the most part “Hey, Look Me Over!” has little new to say about its old sources. It will be of interest to historians, if not to history.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS