AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisMr. Sessions has made no decision, and in soliciting the assessment of department lawyers, he may be seeking a way out of the bind his boss has put him in. At a congressional hearing on Tuesday, he pushed back against Republicans impatient for a special counsel. But if he or his deputy ultimately does authorize a new investigation of Mrs. Clinton, it would shatter post-Watergate norms intended to prevent presidents from using law enforcement agencies against political rivals.The request alone was enough to incite a political backlash, as critics of Mr. Trump quickly denounced what they called “banana republic” politics of retribution, akin to autocratic nations where election losers are jailed by winners.But conservatives said Mrs. Clinton should not be immune from scrutiny as a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, investigates Russia’s interference in last year’s election and any connections to Mr. Trump’s campaign. They argued, for example, that Mrs. Clinton was the one doing Russia’s bidding in the form of a uranium deal approved when she was secretary of state.At Tuesday’s hearing before the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Sessions denied that he was responding to Mr. Trump’s public pressure. “A president cannot improperly influence an investigation,” he said, “and I have not been improperly influenced and would not be improperly influenced. The president speaks his mind. He’s a bold and direct about what he says, but people elected him. But we do our duty every day based on the law and facts.”Even as he rebuffed Democrats suggesting he had been compromised, Mr. Sessions pushed back against Republicans who pressed him on why he had not already appointed a special counsel. “What’s it going to take to get a special counsel?” demanded Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio.“It would take a factual basis that meets the standards of the appointment of a special counsel,” Mr. Sessions said.Mr. Jordan raised questions about a dossier of salacious assertions about Mr. Trump prepared last year by a firm paid by Mrs. Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee. Mr. Jordan said “it sure looks like” the Democrats collaborated with the F.B.I. to use the dossier to persuade a secret intelligence court to issue a warrant to spy on Americans associated with Mr. Trump’s campaign. “That’s what it looks like,” Mr. Jordan said.Mr. Sessions bridled at that. “I would say ‘looks like’ is not enough basis to appoint a special counsel,” he retorted.Among the issues being examined, according to a Justice Department letter to the committee, is the uranium case. In 2010, Russia’s atomic energy agency acquired Uranium One, a Canadian company that at the time controlled 20 percent of American uranium extraction capacity. The purchase was approved by a government committee that included representatives of nine agencies, including the State Department.To the extent that there may be legitimate questions about Mrs. Clinton or Mr. Comey, however, the credibility of any investigation presumably would be called into question should one be authorized by Mr. Sessions or his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, because of the way it came about under pressure from Mr. Trump.Of 10 former attorneys general contacted Tuesday, only one responded to a question about what they would do in Mr. Sessions’s situation.Mr. Barr said he sees more basis for investigating the uranium deal than any supposed collusion between Mr. Trump and Russia. “To the extent it is not pursuing these matters, the department is abdicating its responsibility,” he said.With his job potentially on the line, Mr. Sessions has been put in the difficult position of absorbing his president’s ire while safeguarding the department’s traditional independence. By asking prosecutors to evaluate the evidence, he has a ready-made reason not to appoint a special counsel if they do not recommend one.“I have no idea what will happen, but this letter is entirely consistent with the A.G. later saying, ‘We followed normal process to look in to it and found nothing,’” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a former Justice Department official under the younger Mr. Bush. “The letter does not tip off or hint one way or another what the A.G.’s decision will be.”At least one active Twitter user will be waiting for that decision.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS