AdvertisementSupported byOften he’s effusive. “I love you, Jim,” Mr. Trump told Jim DeMint, the former Heritage Foundation president, during a small gathering of conservative leaders in the Oval Office in March.This is no accident. Mr. Trump and members of his administration have spent their first six months in office cultivating and strengthening ties to the movement’s key groups and players with a level of attention and care that stands out for a White House that often struggles with the most elementary tasks of politics and governing.Their outreach extends to groups across the ideological spectrum — small government, tax-averse Tea Party followers; gun owners; abortion opponents; evangelical Christians and other culturally traditional voters. And it reflects the importance that Mr. Trump and his aides have placed on the movement politics of the right, which they recognize as the one base of support they cannot afford to alienate since conservatives, according to Gallup, are 36 percent of the electorate.“You want the structures that deliver people, votes and enthusiasm — and he understands that,” said Grover Norquist, the veteran anti-tax activist who has been working with White House officials as they develop a tax legislation package.“Where’s Trump been the most solid?” Mr. Norquist asked, listing the range of conservative constituencies the president has prioritized. “Taxes. He’s never going to raise taxes. Pro-life, he gets that. Home schoolers, he listens to them. And guns. He’s good on guns.”And on Wednesday, the White House embraced reducing the number of people who can immigrate to the country legally, as one of the president’s senior aides ripped into a reporter on live television for revealing his “cosmopolitan bias” by questioning the fairness of the proposal.In the coming weeks, the president will speak out more on the need to start construction on a border wall and step up pressure on Congress to approve the necessary funding.Republican strategists who have been looking at private polling in states where Mr. Trump won in November say he continues to outperform his national average among right-leaning voters.“If you’re a conservative Republican voter, who are you more likely to blame, Trump or Mitch McConnell?” asked Frank Cannon, a Republican who advises conservative groups and candidates. “I think that question answers itself.”Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor who was a pollster and strategist for conservative causes for two decades before joining the Trump campaign last summer, said the goal of the administration has been to bring the movement inside after years in the political wilderness.“So many of them look at this administration as a rescue mission years in the making,” she said. "It’s not just about policy but respect. And they just haven’t felt respected.”“To lose his leadership would be disastrous for the president’s policy agenda,” they wrote.But Mr. Trump’s willingness to grant conservative activists a seat at the table in the way that other Republicans have not has endeared the president to the movement.“People are becoming increasingly irritated with Republicans on Capitol Hill,” said Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots, who was also in the Oval Office meeting in March with conservative leaders. Speaker Paul D. Ryan, she added, has yet to ask her group into his office this year.Every Friday afternoon the White House sends an email to movement leaders called “The Trumpet,” which lists the latest events and achievements that conservatives might find of interest and asks for their help in promoting the president’s policies.“Please publicly push for tax reform that is simpler and fairer, that provides middle-class tax relief,” one email implored last month.There are small Oval Office gatherings, dinners with the president at the White House, regular strategy sessions with his senior staff, meetings with Vice President Mike Pence in his office and at his Naval Observatory residence.Mr. Trump does not spare the hyperbole.“Everyone’s talking about you,” he said in a voice mail message to Marjorie Dannenfelser, a leading anti-abortion activist, thanking her for her work during his campaign. “The job you did was incredible. Sort of record-setting.”Mr. Perkins, who serves as pastor of a Louisiana church, said he is besieged with congregants who tell him they are standing by the president.“There’s not a Sunday that goes by that I don’t have people in the congregation that will grab me,” Mr. Perkins said, “and say, ‘How’s the president doing? Did you see him this week? I’m praying for him every day and I’m just so angry at the media and how they’re attacking him.’”Ms. Dannenfelser, the anti-abortion activist who leads the Susan B. Anthony List, said that a level of trust has built up between the movement and Mr. Trump, despite early misgivings, as it became clear to them that his allegiance was not fleeting.“He’s comfortable with us because we have a deal that works,” she said. “He’s withstood all these pressures close to him. And I think that’s because this is who he is, and how he wants to do politics.”Ms. Martin, the Tea Party activist, was in Washington last week during a last-ditch lobbying effort to pass the doomed Affordable Care Act repeal.Before she headed off to Capitol Hill for the day, she read from a letter she had recently received from a retired Army nurse from Ohio. “They are doing everything they can to make our president look bad,” the letter said. “Everything they are doing will backfire on them in due time.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS