AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementIn one Goldman Sachs talk, Clinton was clearly sympathetic to the concerns of the finance industry, noting that assessing the right level of regulation is no easy task:There’s nothing magic about regulations, too much is bad, too little is bad. How do you get to the golden key, how do we figure out what works? And the people that know the industry better than anybody are the people who work in the industry.Clinton’s difficulties speak to the challenges of reconciling the various interests within a changing Democratic coalition.Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementUnderstandably, this largess sits well with the pro-business faction within Democratic ranks.Nationalists see patriotism as a virtue; they think their country and its culture are unique and worth preserving. This is a real moral commitment, not a pose to cover up racist bigotry. Some nationalists do believe that their country is better than all others, and some nationalisms are plainly illiberal and overtly racist. But as many defenders of patriotism have pointed out, you love your spouse because she or he is yours, not because you think your spouse is superior to all others.I asked Haidt where Clinton fits into this scheme, and he replied in an email:She’s a globalist, through and through. Globalist morality tends to be very concerned about human rights and transnational concerns, especially those related to suffering and oppression. One of Clinton’s most famous lines from the 1990s is her speech in Beijing where she said “Human rights are women’s rights, and women’s rights are human rights.”The result, Stewart wrote in an email, is the emergence of two competing identities or “two distinct views about what constitutes a good society, one cosmopolitan and the other parochial.”David Leege, a professor of political science emeritus at Notre Dame, has a parallel, but different, take. He argues that “a major source of the unwieldiness is the changed meaning of liberalism/conservatism” that can no longer be measured “along an economic dimension” alone.By the year 2000, Leege argues, the Republican Party and conservative movement successfully merged “white nativism” with “the family values” appeal to demonize “blacks, Hispanics, single mothers, Hollywood, educated elites at the universities who did not advocate or live the moral life of conservative Protestants and Catholics” as “unworthy of recognition by the state with financial resources.”The result, according to Leege, has been “a new referent for ‘liberal’ and ‘conservative’ anchored in cultural differences, i.e., the way we are supposed to live as an American people. It has strong overtones of change and expressive individualism, on the one hand, and tradition and respect for authority on the other” — a division similar to that of globalists v. nationalists and cosmopolitan v. parochial.AdvertisementClinton’s struggles, in the view of David Mayhew, a political scientist at Yale, reflect disturbing developments within the Democratic Party. In an email, Mayhew wrote:The Democratic Party has become inhospitable to the accommodation of multiple intraparty interests. That is obvious. Clinton’s crack about the “deplorables” and “irredeemables” wasn’t just a misstatement. It was a window into the thinking of the party’s current activist core. Central to the party’s mind-set is an arrogant dismissal of a major share of the U.S. population. These folks are dismissed as incapable of making judgments about their own lives, their aspirations, and the larger politics and society surrounding them.Mayhew warned: “This dismissiveness does not go unnoticed.”Globalists see nationalists as hopelessly parochial. The word “parochial” means, literally, concerned with matters of the local parish, rather than the larger world. But as it is commonly used, the word is an insult. OxfordDictionaries.com offers these synonyms: narrow-minded, illiberal, intolerant, conservative.There is a case to be made for the contribution so-called elites make to the progressive project, disagreements between globalists and nationalists notwithstanding.Daron Acemoglu, an MIT economist, argues that the left alliance needs its upscale wing.Democrats, Acemoglu argues, “should seek a coalition that stands for the most vulnerable people in society,” but he believes “such a coalition could not stand by itself without the support of influential, well-off members of American society.”Such a coalition is possible, Acemoglu said,As long as the Democratic Party shakes off its hard-core anti-market, pro-union stance, there is a huge constituency of well-educated, socially conscious Americans that will join in.Realistically, the likelihood that Democrats will abandon labor in the foreseeable future is zero.See More »Go to Home Page »