AdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, lacking support from Senate Democrats and possibly several Republicans, on Tuesday took himself out of consideration to be the next director of the F.B.I.“I have always considered public service to be a great privilege,” Mr. Cornyn said in a statement, adding: “Now more than ever the country needs a well-credentialed, independent F.B.I. director. I’ve informed the administration that I’m committed to helping them find such an individual, and that the best way I can serve is continuing to fight for a conservative agenda in the U.S. Senate.”Many Republican lawmakers, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, have repeatedly called for a nonpolitical nominee to replace Mr. Comey, preferably one who could get the approval of most Democrats, even though under current Senate rules a nominee could be confirmed by Republican votes alone.“I think the most important thing is for the president to pick somebody who’s apolitical, who clearly has a deep law enforcement background,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference on Tuesday. He added: “Historically it’s been a solid law enforcement professional without a background in elective office.”President Trump fired F.B.I. Director James B. Comey after asking him to announce that he was not personally under investigation. The president later told Russian officials that firing Mr. Comey had taken the pressure off.Mr. McConnell has openly supported the idea of Mr. Trump picking Merrick B. Garland, President Obama’s foiled nominee for the Supreme Court, who is currently the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Mr. McConnell prevented Mr. Garland last year from getting so much as a hearing for the Supreme Court vacancy. Friends who have spoken to the judge have told reporters that he is not interested in leaving the judiciary.Mr. Cornyn’s decision to take himself out of the running is a relief to wary F.B.I. agents. They saw any move to put a politician in charge of the agency as further damaging the institution.The administration has interviewed about a dozen candidates for the job. “The position demands the independence and intellect not normally associated with the field of politics,” said Paul Moskal, a former F.B.I. agent and lawyer.Brig Barker, another former F.B.I. agent, said a politician running the agency would taint the entire institution. “I think we could potentially continue the damage,” he said. Every F.B.I. agent who arrived at someone’s door would be seen through the lens of politics. “We don’t need to bring in a politician,” he said. “We are apolitical down to the core.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS