AdvertisementJohn B. Anderson, a former Republican congressman from Illinois who bolted his party to run as a plain-spoken independent candidate for president in 1980, drawing an enthusiastic if transient following among liberals and college students, died on Sunday night in Washington. He was 95.His death was confirmed by his daughter Diane Anderson.The United States was struggling with a recession, a severe energy crisis and the protracted Iranian hostage crisis when Mr. Anderson gave up a safe seat in the House of Representatives to seek the Republican presidential nomination. When that try fizzled, he reintroduced himself as an independent, honest-dealing alternative to the rancorous business-as-usual politics of the major parties.For a while he had the national spotlight, a 58-year-old maverick whose white hair, horn-rimmed glasses and clearheaded presentation gave him the air of a genial professor who was not so much above the fray as he was unwilling to play by its rules.Mr. Anderson refused to pander, telling voters in Iowa that he favored President Jimmy Carter’s embargo on grain sales to the Soviet Union after it had invaded Afghanistan. He called for a gasoline tax of 50 cents per gallon — when a gallon cost $1.15 — to save energy.AdvertisementEarly on, when all six of his rivals for the Republican nomination assured the Gun Owners of New Hampshire that they firmly opposed gun control legislation, Mr. Anderson said, “I don’t understand why.”Advertisement“When in this country we license people to drive automobiles,” he added, “what is so wrong about proposing that we license guns to make sure that felons and mental incompetents don’t get ahold of them?”He was roundly booed.His backers promoted his campaign style as “the Anderson difference,” but despite it — or perhaps because of it — he never finished better than second in a Republican primary. That came in Illinois, his home state, which he had expected to win. When he did not, losing to Ronald Reagan by fewer than 12 points (Mr. Reagan was born in Illinois), he decided to run as an independent.Drawing support from moderate to liberal Republicans and liberal Democrats and finding a receptive audience on college campuses, Mr. Anderson did well in the polls at the start. At one point, upward of one-fifth of voters said they preferred him to the major party nominees, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter, the Democrat, who was seeking re-election. Mr. Anderson peaked in June, when he was the choice of 24 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll, 25 percent in a Harris/ABC poll and 18 percent in a New York Times/CBS News poll.His hopes were sustained by the volatility of the 1980 campaign, with its sudden swings of popularity. Mr. Carter’s Democratic challenger, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, led by large margins in early polls, only to see the president recover and defeat him soundly in the primaries.Mr. Reagan, the early Republican favorite, spent money lavishly, but lost to George Bush in the Iowa caucuses and trailed in national polls before a solid win in New Hampshire put him back on the road to the nomination. Mr. Anderson said he believed that the tide might turn in his favor in “the climactic phase of the campaign.”So he pushed on, calling Mr. Carter a “mean and evasive” campaigner who used a recession and high unemployment to fight inflation, and criticizing Mr. Reagan’s campaign “one-liners,” calling them “slick and simplistic.”But in a pattern familiar to independent candidates, Mr. Anderson’s support drifted as voters turned to candidates who they believed could actually win the White House. On Election Day, when Mr. Reagan won in a landslide, Mr. Anderson ended up with 6.6 percent of the popular vote.AdvertisementMr. Anderson was perceived as the most liberal of the three contenders. That label probably fit on social issues like abortion, but his economic views were traditionally conservative. He preferred to think of himself as the moderate in the race — a self-description that reflected a marked political evolution.In his first three years in the House, starting in 1961, Mr. Anderson, a former prosecutor and a decorated World War II veteran, received a zero rating from the liberal group Americans for Democratic Action. Not long after entering the Capitol, he proposed a constitutional amendment declaring that “this nation devoutly recognizes the authority and law of Jesus Christ, Savior and Ruler of nations.”The measure never came to a vote, and he later apologized for it.Though his views began to moderate, he was still conservative enough in 1969 for the Republicans to elect him chairman of the House Republican Conference, the third-ranking leadership position. He held the post through 1979, though not without fighting off challenges from the right. By then, the A.D.A. had put his voting record in the mid-40s, and he had harshly criticized President Richard M. Nixon, a fellow Republican, over his handling of the Watergate scandal. His own critics called Mr. Anderson self-righteous and preachy.But he grew increasingly impatient not only with the House but also with the growing strength of the right wing of his own party.“Extremist fringe elements,” he complained in 1977, “seek to expel the rest of us from the G.O.P.” He warned, “If the purists stage their ideological coup d’état, our party will be consigned to the historical junk heap.”The right returned the compliment with a strong Republican primary campaign against him in his 1978 House race. With the help of Democratic crossover votes, Mr. Anderson won with 58 percent over the insurgent, Don Lyon, a conservative minister. But he resented the challenge, and his thoughts turned to the White House.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was always a long-shot campaign. Few elected officials endorsed him. His Republican campaign, announced in June 1979, drew little support as Mr. Bush emerged as the only viable alternative to Mr. Reagan (who wound up choosing Mr. Bush as his running mate).For his independent run, announced in April 1980, Mr. Anderson had to spend millions to get on the ballot in all 50 states as the National Unity Party candidate, leaving little cash for television advertising. (His running mate was Patrick J. Lucey, a former Democratic governor of Wisconsin.) And when Mr. Carter refused to join him in a September debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters — the president, it was said, did not want to be perceived as taking Mr. Anderson’s candidacy seriously — Mr. Anderson’s last and best chance of making an impact was snuffed out.AdvertisementThe debate went ahead without the president, but Mr. Reagan gained more from it than Mr. Anderson did. When Mr. Anderson’s poll standing slipped below 15 percent, the league did not invite him back for an October debate, the only one between Mr. Carter and Mr. Reagan, for whom it was a turning point.But Mr. Anderson never considered dropping out.“We had operated from the very beginning with the assumption that it was a given that Jimmy Carter could not be re-elected,” Mr. Anderson told a conference at the Institute of Politics at Harvard weeks after the election. His hope, he added, was that with the collapse of the Carter campaign, he could emerge “as a rational and reasonable alternative to Ronald Reagan.”To the frequent accusation that he had been a spoiler in the race, he replied: “What’s to spoil? Spoil the chances of two men at least half the country doesn’t want?”John Bayard Anderson was born on Feb. 15, 1922, in Rockford, Ill., a son of Swedish immigrants, E. Albin Anderson and the former Mabel Edna Ring. As a boy he worked in the family’s grocery store and was the valedictorian of his class at Rockford Central High School.He earned bachelor’s and law degrees at the University of Illinois and a master of laws at Harvard. In World War II he earned four battle stars as a staff sergeant in the field artillery in Europe and later worked in the Foreign Service in Berlin and Washington, where he met Keke Machakos, a passport photographer. They married in 1953. Returning to Illinois, he was elected state’s attorney for Winnebago County in 1956.In addition to his daughter Diane, he is survived by his wife; three other daughters, Eleanora van der Wal, Karen Moree and Susan Anderson; a son, John Jr.; and 11 grandchildren.Mr. Anderson had homes in Rockford as well as in Washington, where he practiced intellectual property law, and in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he taught law for many years at Nova Southeastern University. He served as president of the World Federalist Association, which promotes international cooperation, and chairman of FairVote, a nonprofit group that favors ranked-choice voting.AdvertisementMr. Anderson was the author of “Between Two Worlds: A Congressman’s Choice” (1970); “The American Economy We Need” (1984) and “A Proper Institution: Guaranteeing Televised Presidential Debates” (1988).The most enduring impact of his 1980 independent campaign came in the courts, where his victories enabled later third-party candidates like H. Ross Perot and Mr. Nader to get on the ballot. Most important was a ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1983 that threw out Ohio’s filing deadline of March 20 for independent candidates. (Mr. Anderson had not decided to run as an independent that early in 1980, but got on the ballot when a Federal District Court ordered Ohio to let him run.)Ohio defended its deadline as a way to maintain “political stability.” But the Supreme Court accepted Mr. Anderson’s argument that states could not impose substantially more onerous burdens on independent candidates than on major party nominees.Though Mr. Anderson’s candidacy had little impact on the outcome of the 1980 election, his campaign was memorable for its candor. Appearing in Des Moines with six rivals for the Republican nomination, Mr. Anderson was alone among them in saying something specific when asked if there was anything in his career he would take back if he could.“It would have been the vote that I cast in favor of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution,” he said, referring to the 1964 congressional measure that gave President Lyndon B. Johnson license to widen the war against North Vietnam.He was equally forthright in defending his call for an emergency excise tax on gasoline, unpopular though it might have been.“I did it as a security measure, to be sure,” he told the September 1980 debate audience, “because I would rather see us reduce the consumption of imported oil than have to send American boys to fight in the Persian Gulf.”An earlier version of this obituary misstated the degree of support Mr. Anderson received when he ran for the Republican presidential nomination. He was endorsed by Representative Jim Jeffords, Republican of Vermont, and some state and local elected officials; it was not the case that “no elected officials, not even his friends in the House, endorsed him.”Go to Home Page »In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times.Trump’s Catchphrase: ‘We’ll See’The Happiest Guy in the WorldMichelle Wolf Roasts Trump AdministrationSão Paulo Tower Collapses in FireKim Jong-un’s Extreme MakeoverWhat Kim Jong-un’s Day In South Korea Looked LikeTrump and Macron’s Relationship, ExplainedVan Jumps Curb and Kills at Least 10 in TorontoRussians Protest Government Effort to Block Telegram AppWhat Gun Control Activists Can Learn From Old BattlesAdvertisementIn a 1942 essay for Opportunity, the journal of the Urban League, the novelist Chester B. Himes warned his readers, “The character of this writer is vulnerable, open to attack, easy to be smeared.” Lawrence P. Jackson’s captivating biography of Himes confirms this appraisal, as Himes is far from invincible, never a hero and rarely even a sympathetic figure. Though Himes had a penchant for mistreating himself and others, he was also brilliant and courageous in his depiction of the absurdity of black American life and the violence of white supremacy.Born into an educated family in 1909, Himes demonstrated academic talent early in his life, continuing in the footsteps of his two older brothers. His closest brother, Joseph, overcame a horrific childhood accident and became a prominent sociologist, but Chester was self-destructive. His parents were unhappy, as Himes’s father, a professor, struggled to find steady employment despite his education and impressive teaching record, and the Himes family moved several times during Chester’s childhood before settling in Ohio. Chester turned to prostitutes, drugs and crime to escape family problems and uneasy relationships with peers during his teenage years. He spun himself into a downward spiral, washed out of Ohio State University and landed in prison in 1928 at age 19.Himes became a writer while incarcerated. Jackson refuses to romanticize Himes’s life or his motivation for becoming an artist. There is no moral redemption in the transformation Himes undergoes while locked away. Rather, Jackson posits that Himes began writing to work through the trauma of a deadly prison fire that amplified the suffering and shame he had felt since childhood. He wrote short stories about criminality and queerness without a blueprint, drawing on the support and encouragement of his first and only same-sex partner, a fellow prisoner named Prince Rico. Himes also briefly concealed his race from editors and wrote only white characters to increase the chance his work would be published.AdvertisementHimes showed little interest in politics until he was released from prison in 1936 and subsequently seduced by the Communist Party, which gave him the tools to pick apart America’s racialized caste system. He was a starving artist, taking menial jobs to make ends meet as his writing gradually turned toward the material horror and psychological torment of white supremacy. Himes’s sexually charged first novel, “If He Hollers Let Him Go” (1945), earned critical acclaim and placed him in the “protest novel” tradition of writers like Richard Wright. It did not, however, establish Himes as a full-fledged celebrity or stabilize his life. Himes’s second and third novels failed to garner substantial praise from critics, and he followed Wright and other self-exiled black American artists to France in 1953.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Excepting a few brief visits to America, Himes remained in Europe for the rest of his life. Jackson’s depiction of his life in France is riveting. Himes wrote at a furious pace but struggled mightily with finances, squandering fellowships, signing ill-conceived contracts with publishers and reneging on debts. He joined a vibrant artistic community in France, befriending and antagonizing the literary giants of his time, including Wright (his idol, dear friend and sometime rival) and Ralph Ellison.Jackson establishes early in the biography that intimate partnership fueled Himes’s writing, as evidenced by Prince Rico’s impact on Himes while incarcerated. Several of the characters in Himes’s early fiction are barely disguised versions of people he knew, and Jackson uses these characters in concert with Himes’s personal letters to bring his friends and colleagues to life. Himes held fast to these relationships to maintain order amid the tumult of artistic labor and alcoholism, and he drew heavily on his experiences, especially his partnerships with white women, in his writing about the psychosexual dimensions of racism. He led an entirely straight romantic life after prison, and his relationship history was replete with episodes of abuse and misbehavior that sullied the affection he showed for the women he loved.AdvertisementDespite Himes’s literary output, wealth and sustained praise eluded him until the final third of his career. Disappointed by his American book sales and haunted by the fact that literary elites did not hold him in the same esteem as Ellison and James Baldwin, Himes took the advice of the French editor Marcel Duhamel and started writing detective novels, beginning with “A Rage in Harlem” (1957). Seemingly overnight, Himes was reborn as a commercial and critical success in France. Himes attributed European interest in his detective novels to his pivoting away from realism and racial protest and toward a more spectacular and cinematic depiction of black life. This is at least partially true, as Himes’s work was eventually developed into the Ossie Davis-directed “Cotton Comes to Harlem” (1970), arguably the first Blaxploitation film ever produced.Yet Jackson disputes the notion that Himes’s hard-boiled detective series evades or cheapens racial politics. Instead Jackson argues that Himes’s “sizzling exaggerations … amplified and telescoped” Himes’s political concerns. The gruesome collage of Harlem fashioned by Himes was devoid of love and racial justice, which mirrored his shrewd cynicism about racial progress. But Jackson says that spilling blood, guts and tragedy on the page was not merely entertainment or catharsis, but politics, because it left room for optimism to fill the void left by despair and destruction.Many of the details of Himes’s life appear in other books, but Jackson’s research is unimpeachable. The biography is based on a kaleidoscopic mix of archival materials, close readings of Himes’s published writing and personal letters and conversations with people who knew him. Himes had a mercurial personality and led a thrilling life that might tempt a biographer to conjure a book in the spirit of its subject, but Jackson avoids this pitfall. The book is neatly written and accessible, without cheap tricks to build suspense or sway readers’ opinions.As for the thorny question of interpretation, Jackson builds measured, straightforward arguments about what Himes believed mostly through close readings of his published work. Carefully chosen excerpts allow Jackson to comment on the techniques, themes and characters most central to Himes’s legacy. The reader senses that Jackson, a professor of English and history at Johns Hopkins University, has even more to say but restrains himself. The biography does not suffer, but one yearns to hear more from Jackson about the social conditions of Himes’s work, literary comparisons between Himes and his contemporaries, and Himes’s impact on writers who followed him. All told, “Chester B. Himes” is a bracing journey through the life of an uncompromising writer who considered himself “an evil, highly sensitive, unsuccessful old man — but … not an American Negro in the usual connotation of the word.”Michael P. Jeffries, a professor of American Studies at Wellesley College, is the author of three books about race in American culture, the latest of which, “Behind the Laughs: Community and Inequality in Comedy,” was published this month.See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byStewart Patrick, the director of the International Institutions and Global Governance Program at the Council on Foreign Relations, elaborated on these trends in an email:The most salient political division today is not between conservatives and liberals in the United States or social democrats in the United Kingdom and France, but between nationalists and globalists. The victory of the Leave campaign in Britain, the triumph of Trump, and the unprecedented success of Marine Le Pen’s National Front (albeit in a losing effort) were underpinned by economic and cultural anxiety that transcended traditional ideological lines — and a rejection of conventional parties and a political establishment that had too long ignored those concerns.Trump accelerated a realignment in the electorate around racism, across several different measures of racial animus — and that it helped him win. By contrast, we found little evidence to suggest individual economic distress benefited Trump. The American political system is sorting so that racial progressivism and economic progressivism are aligned in the Democratic Party and racial conservatism and economic conservatism are aligned in the Republican Party.On the surface, the success of the British Labour Party in the elections two weeks ago would appear to stand apart. But Labour’s gains were not based on improved margins in traditionally Labour leaning constituencies. Corbyn’s Labour Party actually lost ground on its home turf, but it more than made up for those setbacks by prevailing in Conservative constituencies.In other words, the Labour Party in England can no longer be considered a labor party in the traditional sense of representing the working class. In this respect, there is a growing demographic convergence between the Democratic Party, the Labour Party in England, Macron’s En Marche in France, the voters who elected Van der Bellen president of Austria and those who voted for the People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy in the Netherlands.In each of these plebiscites, education emerged as the strongest predictor of votes for a right populist option, where the less educated chose it more often than those with degrees.According to Stewart Patrick of the Council on Foreign Relations, globalization and the Great Recession of 2007-9 have resulted in a “pervasive anxiety” that providesfertile grounds for populists who promise a reassertion of control and national sovereignty, including over borders, as well as a renewed focus on those left behind in the global economy.Patrick shares with a number of internationalists the hope that Macron and En Marche represent a viable political solution to contemporary conflicts that could be applied in other countries:Macron’s genius has been to argue that he can thread the political needle, by embracing globalization and reinforcing social protections to compensate those exposed to its downside. In the process, he has obliterated traditional parties of the left and the right, while promising a synthesis tailor made for the twenty-first century. If he can bring it off, he will become a model for other leaders to follow — including in the United States.Even more striking, among all voters, Clinton won 52-42 among the college-educated while Trump carried those without degrees 51-44.The “ascendant militant wing” — a colorful, if controversial, description of the Sanders-Warren wing of the party — has the moral high ground within Democratic ranks but the votes they want the party to seek are those of some of the least reachable constituencies — white men and women whose views on immigration, race and political correctness are in direct conflict with liberal idealism. It would be an extraordinary challenge to get these particular voters to join with minorities and progressive activists.Liberals must take seriously Americans’ yearning for social cohesion. To promote both mass immigration and greater economic redistribution, they must convince more native-born white Americans that immigrants will not weaken the bonds of national identity.In practical terms, Beinart writes, “it means celebrating America’s diversity less, and its unity more.”The hard partis backing tough immigration enforcement so that path to citizenship doesn’t become a magnet that entices more immigrants to enter the U.S. illegally.Beinart cites Karen Stenner’s 2005 book, “The Authoritarian Dynamic,” in which she wrote:Exposure to difference, talking about difference, and applauding difference — the hallmarks of liberal democracy — are the surest ways to aggravate those who are innately intolerant, and to guarantee the increased expression of their predispositions in manifestly intolerant attitudes and behaviors. Paradoxically, then, it would seem that we can best limit intolerance of difference by parading, talking about, and applauding our sameness.Americans, Beinart contends,know that liberals celebrate diversity. They’re less sure that liberals celebrate unity. And Obama’s ability to effectively do the latter probably contributed to the fact that he — a black man with a Muslim-sounding name — twice won a higher percentage of the white vote than did Hillary Clinton.What we are seeing now is the replacement of class-based politics, a trend apparent in the United States and Europe. This gives us a more racialized and xenophobic politics, on one hand, and a politics capitalizing on increasing levels of education and open-mindedness in the electorate on the other. If the building of a viable left coalition is possible, it is likely to require some thoughtful and humane co-optation in the form of deference to our limits and boundaries.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAppreciationsThese were often turbulent times: captured hostages and roaring inflation under Jimmy Carter; “morning in America” for some, and budgetary austerity for others, under Ronald Reagan; and the end of the Cold War under the first President Bush. And at home, the near-collapse and gradual revival of New York City. The role of the editorial page, in Jack’s view, was to add the institutional voice of The Times to the national and local conversation on a wide range of issues, and to that end, with great humor and even greater patience, he encouraged a robust and often contentious staff of more than a dozen writers to produce lively and thoughtful pieces on their specialties for an audience of demanding readers — of which the most demanding was Jack himself.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe relentless focus on the white working class in the aftermath of the election of President Trump has overshadowed a much larger bloc of voters, the roughly 65 million service sector workers whose partisan loyalty is up for grabs.This immense and diverse employment sector is set to become a battleground in the struggle between Democrats and Republicans.Mark Muro, a Brookings senior fellow, noted in an email:While the term "service sector" has become somewhat pejorative, with its ambience of lousy locally-traded food-service and maintenance jobsit also includesresearch services, education services, and professional services like consulting.Muro sees potential for Democratic Party growth in the service sector, arguing thatthe ongoing "servitization” of the economy is a big trend and it likely will benefit the Democratic Party for years to come.Manufacturing jobs moved in the opposite direction, falling from 18.2 million in 1974 to 12.4 million.Richard Florida, the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, has conducted some of the most detailed analyses of employment sectors.“Republicans dominate working class metros,” Florida noted in an email. “Democrats dominate knowledge-professional-creative class metros.”Standing between the working and creative classes are low-paid service workers. Florida places better paid service workers who are technically in the service class — lawyers, teachers, social workers, many high tech digital employees — into the creative class.With this more restrictive definition, Florida notes, service workers are stillthe largest class with 65 million workers, about 45 percent of the work force. Low wage routine jobs in food prep retail, office work, personal and health services. Majority women, multiracial, multiethnic.How do they vote? Florida finds that this population currently splits its vote evenly between the two parties — “no statistical significance for either Trump or Clinton.” According to Florida, for Democrats, to keep “bemoaning the loss of the white working class may be a big mistake.”Florida argues that low-paid service workers are the population that Democrats need to mobilize. He suggests a far more targeted approach:Not working class places. The way to do this is with an aggressive inclusive growth agenda: upgrade service jobs, higher geographically-indexed minimum wage, better labor laws to protect service and caring work and jobs, universal basic income, affordable housing. I could go on. This is the new winning cross-class, geographic coalition.Patrick Adler, a doctoral candidate in urban planning at U.C.L.A. who collaborated with Florida on this research, does not disagree, but has some caveats. He sent me data he compiled that suggests that low-paid service workers are by no means guaranteed to become loyal Democrats. Much depends on ethnic and other demographic characteristics.Adler analyzed 2016 voter information from 75 metropolitan areas with absolute majorities (at least 50 percent) of low-wage service workers — cities like Ocean City, N.J., Hot Springs, Ark. and Las Vegas.Adler’s data shows that the strongest Clinton metro areas were 49.8 percent Latino, while Trump’s best metros were 8.7 percent Latino. Clinton metros had four times the percentage of foreign-born voters (at 20 percent) as Trump’s (at 5 percent).“What stands out to me,” Adler wrote,is that solidly Clinton service metros tend to be immigrant gateways like Miami, McAllen and Orlando, while solidly Trump service metros tend to be highly segregated (i.e., black/white segregated) Southern places.The demographics of the pro-Clinton metros point to additional problems facing Democrats who seek to build support among service workers. The high levels of immigrant, Latino and foreign-born voters in these communities means that it is more challenging to register and turn them out.Democrats, however, know that they need to get more votes from workers without college degrees, and that their best opportunity to do so is among service workers.For example, 77 percent of the 5.8 million employed in personal care and service occupations are women; 72 percent of the 17.7 million people working in office and administrative support occupations are women; and 75.6 percent of the 8.9 million in health care occupations.Democratic operatives and union organizers are starting to mobilize lower-paid service workers in preparation for the 2018 midterms and the 2020 presidential elections. The Service Workers International Union is gearing up for a major political and union organizing campaign in the Midwest.Union officials estimate that there are 64 million workers across the country who make less than $15 an hour.“Only half are registered, and only half of them voted. 48 million of them did not vote in 2016,” one union leader, who asked not to be identified so that he could be forthright, told me. A big problem last year, he said, was thatHillary Clinton didn’t inspire anyone. Why the hell stand in line if it’s just to vote for more of the same?Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster and strategist, wrote me by email to say that he thinks Florida’s analysis “is very smart.” Greenberg, like many pollsters, had been broadly categorizing voters without college degrees as working class, but recently he has begun to change the practice:For the first time, we are asking occupation to try to get at this — and so, I think there really is potential for Democrats to gain here. This is a real insight into what is possible.Service industries are where the growth strategies of organized labor have been mostly focused for 40 years, and where most of the growth has occurred. While union membership has stagnated on the bottom line at around 16 million over that span, the composition of the 16 million changed dramatically, millions of health care, personal service, education and government workers (and some retail) joining, while roughly the same number in other sectors “leaving.”Republican leaders, Booth argues, are fully aware of the dangers of an organized and politically mobilized service sector. “The effort to strangle this opportunity has been the top strategic priority of the GOP” since it gained power in the 2010 midterm elections, he contended. These efforts include state right-to-work legislation, ending automatic deduction of union dues, severe restrictions on the issues permitted at the bargaining table, and other restraints on organized labor.Booth notes that in 2014, Democrats and unions successfully backed ballot initiatives to raise the minimum wage in three red states, Alaska, Arkansas and South Dakota, “but little or none of the support spilled over to help Mark Pryor, Mark Begich and Rick Weiland,” the losing Democratic Senate candidates in those states.One key obstacle for Democrats seeking to recruit service workers is that such a mobilization would require stronger class appeals and less emphasis on identity politics than party leaders have been prepared to make.If, as my SEIU source says, “politics doesn’t answer people’s problems,” then you are “not going to get majorities willing to get into the fight.”Similar tension has been a constant source of intraparty conflict dating back nearly 50 years to the 1968 presidential primary battle between Hubert Humphrey, Eugene McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy.The conflict will not be resolved by November 2018. But the ideas suggested by Richard Florida are a start. Nothing instills the drive to adopt successful strategies like the anguish of defeat and the relegation to minority status.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byDuring his primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, Senator Bernie Sanders, a self-proclaimed socialist, lived up to the grand Democratic tradition of favoring the underdog at the expense of the rich.The Sanders tax-and-spending plan throws into sharp relief the problem that the changing demographic makeup of the Democratic coalition creates for party leaders. Trouble brews when a deeply held commitment to the underdog comes into conflict with the self-interested pocketbook and lifestyle concerns of the upper middle class.Higher up the ladder, the tax increase would grow to $130,275 for those in the top 5 percent, to $525,365 for those in the top one percent and to $3.1 million for the top 0.1 percent.We must send a message to the billionaire class: “you can’t have it all.” You can’t get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry.But Sanders spoke to the Democratic Party of 2016, not the Democratic Party of the Great Depression.In days past, a proposal to slam the rich to reward the working and middle classes meant hitting Republicans to benefit Democrats.In other words, 41 years ago, the year Jimmy Carter won the presidency, the Sanders proposal would have made political sense.But what about now?In the past, Democrats could support progressive, redistributive policies knowing that the costs would fall largely on Republicans. That is no longer the case. Now supporting these policies requires the party to depend on the altruistic idealism of millions of supporters who, despite being relatively well off, often feel financially pressed themselves.This problem applies not only to tax policy, but even more to social policies concerning education and housing.Reeves argues that those in the top 20 percent of the income distribution have become an increasingly isolated class; if the country is to restore the American tradition of upward mobility, this elite will have to pay for it.“The upper middle class has been having it pretty good. It is about time those of us in the favored fifth recognized our privileged position,” Reeves writes. As members of this class protect their status and economic gains for themselves and their children, Reeves contends, they have capitalized on a host of less visible forces — exclusionary zoning, the clustering of elites, legacy college admissions, disproportionate political influence — to build a protective wall, keeping those in the lower quintiles of the income distribution from breaking in.As Reeves points out,it is a stubborn mathematical fact that, at any given time, the top fifth of the income distribution can accommodate only 20 percent of the population. Relative intergenerational mobility is a zero sum game. For someone to move up the ladder, someone else must move down.Even the most liberal parents are unlikely to be comfortable with the idea that their own children should fall down the scale in the name of making room for a smarter kid from a poorer home.His proposals calling on the upper middle class to abandon unfair “opportunity hoarding” raise a basic political question. Can the Democratic Party, as it is currently constructed, maintain its commitment to a redistributive agenda? Put another way, can a political party impose costs on its own constituents, especially those voters who make up the most influential faction of the party: the affluent and well educated?The preliminary evidence from actual events is that demanding sacrifice poses major risks. Asking people to think of themselves as compassionate and to pay higher taxes is one thing — many Democrats have made that leap — but ask them to live in a mixed income neighborhood or ask them to have their kid give up her spot at Princeton, and you get a different response.“The idea was sensible, simple, and progressive,” Reeves writes. “The episode was a brutal reminder that sensible policy is not always easy politics.” Reeves noted that two of the leading Democratic opponents of the 529 reform, Nancy Pelosi and Chris Van Hollen, who was elected Maryland’s junior senator in November but was a congressman when Obama proposed it, represented districts where “almost half their constituents are in households with six-figure incomes.”Perhaps the most problematic issue for affluent Democrats are proposals calling for expanded construction of affordable housing in middle-to-upper-middle class neighborhoods.Segregation is a disaster for the poor. It crushes upward mobility by cutting off resources to essential public goods like quality education. Yet, in almost every city and metropolitan municipality there is a strong entrenched group committed to using political regulations to perpetuate segregation. These people are more commonly known as homeowners.The Lucas Valley Homeowner’s Association was formed to oppose “high density development." Likewise, the Marin Community Alliance was formed “to protect and preserve the character" of the area.The response, Rothwell continued,is sadly typical. Since zoning’s modern origins in the 1920s, homeowner associations and other groups have banded together to keep racial minorities and non-affluent people out of their suburban municipalities and neighborhoods.In an effort to further explore this question, I asked Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale, two questions:As the share of Democrats who are well-educated and upper middle class grows, how can the party continue to advocate redistributive policies? Can a party survive that calls on its own members to pay the costs of policies designed to help those on the bottom rungs?Hacker replied:The evidence is clear that even relatively affluent Democrats are more supportive of redistribution than a typical Republican — at least in opinion surveys. This general support, however, doesn’t always translate into support for pro-opportunity policies at the local level.Affordable housing, Hacker wrote, “is far and away the best example.” Opposition to zoning allowing denser and more affordable housing “comes not just from well-off residents but also from landlords who get monopoly rents.” The inherent zero-sum thinking underlying not-in-my-backyard approachesprevents positive-sum solutions that could reduce the economic conflict between poorer members of the Democratic coalition and the more affluent segments.Hacker concluded his email on an upbeat note, contending that “demography is not destiny” and that Democratic leaderscould work more aggressively to identify and create positive-sum solutions — pro-growth policies that both lift up the least advantaged and attenuate class-based cleavages within its own coalition.Arthur Lupia, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, less optimistically put his finger on the core problem for Democrats:The Democratic Party is evolving in multiple ways that separate it from the living conditions of large numbers of working-class Americans.The result, Lupia wrote, is thatmany Democrats now know less, and appear to care less, about the day-to-day struggles of many working class Americans. Hillary Clinton is an example of a Democrat who struggled to be seen by many such Americans as having a sincere and credible grasp of their concerns.Hacker and Lupia, while differing in outlook, together raise a basic concern about the contemporary Democratic Party: the casual, if not negligent, willingness of the party elite to adopt policies and positions, however worthy, without regard to the costs such policies impose on others.The Democratic delegates were well to the left of Democratic voters, a trend that continues. Seven out of ten delegates said that abortion should be generally available and 20 percent said abortion should be available under “stricter limits”; 43 percent of Democratic voters supported generally available abortion and 39 percent said under “stricter limits.”More than 8 out of 10 Democratic delegates in 2008 agreed that “government should do more to solve national problems,” while 54 percent of Democratic voters shared that view, according to American National Election Studies. Hillary Clinton’s 2016 Democratic coalition clearly reflected the same priorities.As the Democratic elite and the Democratic electorate as a whole become increasingly well educated and affluent, the party faces a crucial question. Can it maintain its crucial role as the representative of the least powerful, the marginalized, the most oppressed, many of whom belong to disadvantaged racial and ethnic minority groups — those on the bottom rungs of the socioeconomic ladder?The steady loss of Democratic support in the white working class, culminating in Trump’s Electoral College victory on the backs of these white voters, must inevitably send a loud and clear signal to the Democratic elite: The more the party abandons the moral imperative to represent the interests of the less well off of all races and ethnicities, the more it risks a repetition of the electoral disaster of 2016 in 2018, 2020 and beyond.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementVernon J. Ehlers, a physicist and longtime Republican congressman from Michigan whose scientific background led him to embrace political positions at odds with those of his party, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Grand Rapids, Mich. He was 83.Rick Treur, Dr. Ehlers’s former campaign manager, said the cause was Alzheimer’s disease.A nuclear physicist and college professor before he entered politics, Dr. Ehlers was elected to Michigan’s third district in 1993 and retired in 2011. Scientists were, and remain, a rarity in elected politics in America; he said he was the first research physicist ever elected to Congress.Dr. Ehlers was part of the wave of Republicans that took control of the House and Senate after the 1994 elections, leaving President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, without a majority in Congress for the rest of his presidency.Dr. Ehlers was a fiscal conservative who worked to enact Speaker Newt Gingrich’s policy agenda, known as the “Contract with America” — an ambitious set of proposals that often led to compromises with the executive branch. He stood with his party on key issues like balancing the budget, limiting the size of the federal government and repealing a ban on assault weapons.AdvertisementAdvertisementHe led a comprehensive review of federal science policy; helped revamp standards for education in science, technology, engineering and math; and helped allocate $270 million to clean the Great Lakes. He also led the way in modernizing the House’s internet presence and email system. His goal, he said, was to create something “so simple that an adult can use it.”Dr. Ehlers coaxed his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reconsider scientific issues, like the cause of climate change, when data appeared to contradict their beliefs.“I just had to go around, continuously talking to people about issues and educating them,” Dr. Ehlers told the NPR program “Talk of the Nation” in 2012. “It took an immense amount of my time.”In one instance, Mr. Treur, the former campaign manager, said, Dr. Ehlers argued in favor of efforts to slow the spread of zebra mussels, an invasive mollusk that had colonized American waters. At one point he had to correct a colleague, who exclaimed, “I don’t know why we have to spend money researching the muscles of zebras!”Misunderstandings like these led Dr. Ehlers to urge others in the scientific community to engage in politics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“You can grumble all you want about those idiots in the Congress,” he told NPR. “But if you’re not helping to educate the idiots, you’re not doing your job.”Vernon James Ehlers was born on Feb. 6, 1934, in Pipestone, Minn. His mother, the former Alice Doorn, was a homemaker, and his father, the Rev. John W. C. Ehlers, was the pastor of a Christian Reformed church in Pipestone. Dr. Ehlers said that his faith’s commitment to service helped persuade him to enter politics.AdvertisementHe graduated from high school in Celeryville, Ohio, then studied for three years at Calvin College in Grand Rapids before completing his undergraduate degree in physics at the University of California, Berkeley, in 1956. He earned his doctorate in nuclear physics there four years later.Dr. Ehlers spent the next few years teaching at Berkeley before returning to Calvin in 1966. He also worked as a volunteer science adviser for his congressman at the time, Gerald R. Ford, the future president.Dr. Ehlers served as a state representative and state senator before he won a special election to fill the seat of Representative Paul B. Henry, who had died of a brain tumor in 1993.He married Johanna Meulink in 1958. She survives him, as do two sons, Brian and Todd; two daughters, Heidi Rienstra and Marla Ehlers; two sisters, Frances Engle and Henrietta Buurma; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.Despite Dr. Ehlers’s efforts, scientists remain a minuscule part of the Congress, according to the Congressional Research Services. Aside from a smattering of engineers and medical doctors, there are only three members of Congress — among 540 representatives and senators — with backgrounds in science: a chemist, a microbiologist and a lone physicist, Dr. Foster.Follow @dslotnik on Twitter.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWhen President Trump nominated Christopher Wray on Wednesday to lead the F.B.I., it appeared that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey had finally made an imprint on an administration he was supposed to have helped shape all along.The governor had publicly endorsed Mr. Wray for the job on June 1 and let it be known on the day of the nomination that he was his guy. “When I was at the absolute lowest point of my professional life, he’s who I called,” Mr. Christie said, referring to when the Bridgegate scandal broke in January 2014.Mr. Wray, a lawyer with King & Spalding and a former federal prosecutor, served as the governor’s counsel during Bridgegate and helped him avoid legal consequences, including testifying in court. But he could not protect the governor from the political ramifications of the scandal, which revealed a cutthroat reward-and-punish style of politics that played a part in torpedoing Mr. Christie’s presidential hopes.Even so, Mr. Trump shortlisted Mr. Christie as a possible running mate and for a time kept him on as the chairman of his transition team, where he was entrusted to fill high-level positions in the new administration. Though the governor ended up being sidelined from that job, the blood-sport political culture that spawned Bridgegate has managed to worm its way into the Trump administration.Several Bridgegate figures are now in the Trump inner circle — no surprise, considering that Mr. Trump and Mr. Christie have been friends since they first dined together in the early 2000s. At the time, Mr. Christie was a federal prosecutor and Mr. Trump was running a highly regulated casino business.AdvertisementThey share a New York-New Jersey style of transactional what-have-you-done-for-me-lately politics, where policy seems secondary, ethics rules are meant to be bent, apologies are rare, secrecy is sacrosanct and lawyers are plentiful.AdvertisementBridgegate culture was exemplified most recently by the firing of James Comey from the F.B.I.: If you’re not giving us absolute loyalty, you’re dead to us.One of the president’s closest advisers, his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, had professed admiration for Bridgegate, the week of orchestrated traffic chaos in Fort Lee, N.J., in September 2013, meant to punish the town’s mayor for not endorsing Mr. Christie for re-election.Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kushner was writing to him soon after Mr. Wildstein had resigned from the Port Authority in the mushrooming scandal. Mr. Kushner was consoling Mr. Wildstein, his former executive vice president at the Kushner-owned Observer Media Group, which he had left to take a political job at the Port Authority.(As it turned out, Mr. Kushner himself seems adept at the politics of revenge. He helped force the governor out of the transition job; Mr. Christie had sent Mr. Kushner’s father to prison while he was the United States attorney in New Jersey.)Mr. Trump had nothing to do with Bridgegate. And yet in later choosing Mr. Christie as his transition chairman, Mr. Trump empowered the governor to bring on similar people. After all, for his own team, the governor had hired Mr. Wildstein, who spied on enemies at the Port Authority. Mr. Christie’s administration also maintained naughty and nice lists of local mayors. Bridgegate culture is about winning, and giving second and third chances only to the most powerful, while underlings lose their jobs, or worse.One of those pushed aside was the governor’s former deputy chief of staff, Bridget Anne Kelly, who wrote the infamous “time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee” email that set the scheme in motion. Federal prosecutors said at trial that she neither conceived the plot nor had the sole authority to sign off on it. Near penniless, she faces 18 months in federal prison.AdvertisementOne of Mr. Stepien’s aides was Matt Mowers, whose failure to secure a Christie endorsement from the Fort Lee mayor prompted the retaliation. Mr. Mowers has a top position at the State Department now, working outside Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s office but answering to the White House.Mr. Mowers and Mr. Stepien have denied wrongdoing and neither was charged in Bridgegate — and with Mr. Wray as his lawyer, neither was the governor, who has also said he did nothing wrong.The subsequent trial last fall proved particularly damning nonetheless: Testimony revealed Mr. Christie was made aware of key details of the plot while it was being carried out.Mr. Christie, whose term ends in January, remains one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal supporters and apologists. After Mr. Comey’s testimony was released last week, Mr. Christie dismissed on MSNBC any loyalty demands the president may have made to the F.B.I. director as mere “normal New York City conversation.”The implication was that Mr. Comey, a North Jersey native who was a United States attorney in New York for two years, didn’t understand the vernacular. Perhaps he would have better understood normal New Jersey conversation, like “Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byALBANY — A German couple walked into their apartment building in Harlem one warm evening in 1973. There were shouts, screams, and two strangers ran out — muggers. They took off down the street.Three men chatting on that block of Riverside Drive West watched — a state official, a neighborhood businessman and a newly minted Democratic district leader holding a can of fruit cocktail that he was bringing home. He reared back and hurled it at the muggers. He missed. So the three bystanders stopped bystanding and started chasing.“It was a lot of fun,” the Democratic leader, Herman D. Farrell Jr., said last week, laughing and looking back 44 years to that day, past a political lifetime far longer than most, and thought of that fast and fearless version of himself. Mr. Farrell caught up with one of the muggers and grabbed his neck, only to be flipped over the man’s shoulders and thrown to the ground. But the three friends caught both men, and Mr. Farrell walked away unhurt.“Staying alive,” he said.At age 85, Mr. Farrell — everyone has called him Denny since birth — is as familiar a presence in the chamber as the gavel that calls it to order, the chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee since 1994. He also served as the chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee from 2001 to 2006, and the Manhattan Democratic Party from 1981 to 2009 — the longest tenure in that organization’s history.“I believe you can get things done if you control the mechanics,” he said then.Along the way, Mr. Farrell built something elusive among many in his chosen calling: a reputation for trustworthiness and for decency in his treatment of rivals.“He is the exemplar of the kind of compromising and deal-making politician that all of a sudden everybody longs for,” said Richard L. Brodsky, a former assemblyman from Westchester. “He was and still is the most elegant person in that chamber.”Charles B. Rangel, the former congressman representing Harlem and Washington Heights, praised his friend’s candor. “He would speak his mind,” he said. “If you’re going to be in for the long run, it’s much easier to know what your true convictions are than to try to remember what you said the last time the question was asked.”Mr. Farrell has heard a lot of these sorts of things since he announced his retirement earlier this month. “I’m really impressed by this guy Farrell,” he said in his Albany office last week, and shrugged. “Next year they won’t remember my name.”The son of a tailor, he has been known as an impeccable dresser throughout his adult life, weaving through his district in Harlem or back and forth to Albany in his cherished convertibles, pulling his hair back into a ponytail when the wind blew it in his face.He said whatever reputation for decorum and for straight talk that he has picked up owes to his upbringing — “My mother would whip me if I didn’t have class,” he said — and childhood in Harlem.“Growing up, we were all different,” he said. “I’m black, Steve’s Jewish. You learned how to insult people without getting killed. I can cut you, because I know how to cut, but on the other hand, you know how to do it just right.”He also learned how to learn. “When I was a child, I couldn’t decide if I was an idiot or smart, because I’m dyslexic,” he said. “I didn’t know what dyslexic was.” Nor did his teachers. He was never a strong student, but he learned how to think creatively to solve problems that others managed more easily, a strategy of casting a wide net for preparation that he said made him a strong debater in later years.“I can’t write a lick, but I can do things,” he said. “I keep things in my head.”David N. Dinkins, the former New York City mayor, said Mr. Farrell had a gift for reading the room before a vote was taken and knowing the outcome. “The thing he was best at was counting,” he said last week. “It’s very important to know how to count.”Several political veterans described Mr. Farrell’s most significant defeat as a sort of victory. In 1985, he ran against Edward I. Koch in the mayoral primary, winning just 13 percent of the vote. But his race was later seen as a steppingstone for Mr. Dinkins’ election five years later.John LoCicero was on the other side of the 1985 race, a longtime adviser to Mr. Koch. “Of all the politicians I have dealt with, when he’s on my side or against, he and I, and Koch, always had a good relationship,” Mr. LoCicero said. “When he gave his word, that was his bond. I never heard anybody put a bad word on Denny.”Joseph R. Lentol, another longtime assemblyman, said Mr. Farrell’s style stands out today. “He debates like a gentleman and makes his point and doesn’t get nasty,” he said. “Maybe it’s a lost art.”Today, Mr. Farrell still stands tall, at 6-foot-4, but leaner than he would like, having lost enough weight to send him to the tailor’s for adjustments to his trademark suits. He stops to catch his breath after a walk across a room. He said he is experiencing new difficulties with memory, and has been, he realizes now, for about a year.“I didn’t catch that I was not functioning as well,” he said. “I should have quit then,” before the last legislative session, he said. “After I got through this year, I realized I had to get out now.”“I liked the man,” Mr. Farrell said. “He was a German who was in a concentration camp and he didn’t have to be. His wife was Jewish but he wasn’t. He kept her alive and kept himself alive.”Mr. Farrell was already a grandfather when, at age 73, he became a father again with the birth of his daughter, Sophia. She is now 12. (“I think it kind of kept him young, to have a young daughter,” Mr. Lentol said.) In announcing his stepping down, Mr. Farrell repeatedly mentioned her and his wish to spend more time with his family.“I’ve got to get her to focus better,” he said. “She’s a whip.”As for the future, Mr. Farrell sees no downside to his generation’s passing of the torch, and in fact, sees improvement. “What really impresses me as I leave is that women will reach an equal place soon,” he said of the Assembly membership. He is promoting Al Taylor, his chief of staff, as his replacement.“He came to me as an intern,” more than 30 years ago, he said. “I told him, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll be out soon. You can take over.’”“The new world, he understands,” Mr. Farrell said. “I don’t.”He smiled. “It’s a good thing,” he said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementJohn B. Anderson, a former Republican congressman from Illinois who bolted his party to run as a plain-spoken independent candidate for president in 1980, drawing an enthusiastic if transient following among liberals and college students, died on Sunday night in Washington. He was 95.His death was confirmed by his daughter Diane Anderson.The United States was struggling with a recession, a severe energy crisis and the protracted Iranian hostage crisis when Mr. Anderson gave up a safe seat in the House of Representatives to seek the Republican presidential nomination. When that try fizzled, he reintroduced himself as an independent, honest-dealing alternative to the rancorous business-as-usual politics of the major parties.For a while he had the national spotlight, a 58-year-old maverick whose white hair, horn-rimmed glasses and clearheaded presentation gave him the air of a genial professor who was not so much above the fray as he was unwilling to play by its rules.Mr. Anderson refused to pander, telling voters in Iowa that he favored President Jimmy Carter’s embargo on grain sales to the Soviet Union after it had invaded Afghanistan. He called for a gasoline tax of 50 cents per gallon — when a gallon cost $1.15 — to save energy.AdvertisementEarly on, when all six of his rivals for the Republican nomination assured the Gun Owners of New Hampshire that they firmly opposed gun control legislation, Mr. Anderson said, “I don’t understand why.”Advertisement“When in this country we license people to drive automobiles,” he added, “what is so wrong about proposing that we license guns to make sure that felons and mental incompetents don’t get ahold of them?”He was roundly booed.His backers promoted his campaign style as “the Anderson difference,” but despite it — or perhaps because of it — he never finished better than second in a Republican primary. That came in Illinois, his home state, which he had expected to win. When he did not, losing to Ronald Reagan by fewer than 12 points (Mr. Reagan was born in Illinois), he decided to run as an independent.Drawing support from moderate to liberal Republicans and liberal Democrats and finding a receptive audience on college campuses, Mr. Anderson did well in the polls at the start. At one point, upward of one-fifth of voters said they preferred him to the major party nominees, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter, the Democrat, who was seeking re-election. Mr. Anderson peaked in June, when he was the choice of 24 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll, 25 percent in a Harris/ABC poll and 18 percent in a New York Times/CBS News poll.His hopes were sustained by the volatility of the 1980 campaign, with its sudden swings of popularity. Mr. Carter’s Democratic challenger, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, led by large margins in early polls, only to see the president recover and defeat him soundly in the primaries.Mr. Reagan, the early Republican favorite, spent money lavishly, but lost to George Bush in the Iowa caucuses and trailed in national polls before a solid win in New Hampshire put him back on the road to the nomination. Mr. Anderson said he believed that the tide might turn in his favor in “the climactic phase of the campaign.”So he pushed on, calling Mr. Carter a “mean and evasive” campaigner who used a recession and high unemployment to fight inflation, and criticizing Mr. Reagan’s campaign “one-liners,” calling them “slick and simplistic.”But in a pattern familiar to independent candidates, Mr. Anderson’s support drifted as voters turned to candidates who they believed could actually win the White House. On Election Day, when Mr. Reagan won in a landslide, Mr. Anderson ended up with 6.6 percent of the popular vote.AdvertisementMr. Anderson was perceived as the most liberal of the three contenders. That label probably fit on social issues like abortion, but his economic views were traditionally conservative. He preferred to think of himself as the moderate in the race — a self-description that reflected a marked political evolution.In his first three years in the House, starting in 1961, Mr. Anderson, a former prosecutor and a decorated World War II veteran, received a zero rating from the liberal group Americans for Democratic Action. Not long after entering the Capitol, he proposed a constitutional amendment declaring that “this nation devoutly recognizes the authority and law of Jesus Christ, Savior and Ruler of nations.”The measure never came to a vote, and he later apologized for it.Though his views began to moderate, he was still conservative enough in 1969 for the Republicans to elect him chairman of the House Republican Conference, the third-ranking leadership position. He held the post through 1979, though not without fighting off challenges from the right. By then, the A.D.A. had put his voting record in the mid-40s, and he had harshly criticized President Richard M. Nixon, a fellow Republican, over his handling of the Watergate scandal. His own critics called Mr. Anderson self-righteous and preachy.But he grew increasingly impatient not only with the House but also with the growing strength of the right wing of his own party.“Extremist fringe elements,” he complained in 1977, “seek to expel the rest of us from the G.O.P.” He warned, “If the purists stage their ideological coup d’état, our party will be consigned to the historical junk heap.”The right returned the compliment with a strong Republican primary campaign against him in his 1978 House race. With the help of Democratic crossover votes, Mr. Anderson won with 58 percent over the insurgent, Don Lyon, a conservative minister. But he resented the challenge, and his thoughts turned to the White House.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was always a long-shot campaign. Few elected officials endorsed him. His Republican campaign, announced in June 1979, drew little support as Mr. Bush emerged as the only viable alternative to Mr. Reagan (who wound up choosing Mr. Bush as his running mate).For his independent run, announced in April 1980, Mr. Anderson had to spend millions to get on the ballot in all 50 states as the National Unity Party candidate, leaving little cash for television advertising. (His running mate was Patrick J. Lucey, a former Democratic governor of Wisconsin.) And when Mr. Carter refused to join him in a September debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters — the president, it was said, did not want to be perceived as taking Mr. Anderson’s candidacy seriously — Mr. Anderson’s last and best chance of making an impact was snuffed out.AdvertisementThe debate went ahead without the president, but Mr. Reagan gained more from it than Mr. Anderson did. When Mr. Anderson’s poll standing slipped below 15 percent, the league did not invite him back for an October debate, the only one between Mr. Carter and Mr. Reagan, for whom it was a turning point.But Mr. Anderson never considered dropping out.“We had operated from the very beginning with the assumption that it was a given that Jimmy Carter could not be re-elected,” Mr. Anderson told a conference at the Institute of Politics at Harvard weeks after the election. His hope, he added, was that with the collapse of the Carter campaign, he could emerge “as a rational and reasonable alternative to Ronald Reagan.”To the frequent accusation that he had been a spoiler in the race, he replied: “What’s to spoil? Spoil the chances of two men at least half the country doesn’t want?”John Bayard Anderson was born on Feb. 15, 1922, in Rockford, Ill., a son of Swedish immigrants, E. Albin Anderson and the former Mabel Edna Ring. As a boy he worked in the family’s grocery store and was the valedictorian of his class at Rockford Central High School.He earned bachelor’s and law degrees at the University of Illinois and a master of laws at Harvard. In World War II he earned four battle stars as a staff sergeant in the field artillery in Europe and later worked in the Foreign Service in Berlin and Washington, where he met Keke Machakos, a passport photographer. They married in 1953. Returning to Illinois, he was elected state’s attorney for Winnebago County in 1956.In addition to his daughter Diane, he is survived by his wife; three other daughters, Eleanora van der Wal, Karen Moree and Susan Anderson; a son, John Jr.; and 11 grandchildren.Mr. Anderson had homes in Rockford as well as in Washington, where he practiced intellectual property law, and in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he taught law for many years at Nova Southeastern University. He served as president of the World Federalist Association, which promotes international cooperation, and chairman of FairVote, a nonprofit group that favors ranked-choice voting.AdvertisementMr. Anderson was the author of “Between Two Worlds: A Congressman’s Choice” (1970); “The American Economy We Need” (1984) and “A Proper Institution: Guaranteeing Televised Presidential Debates” (1988).The most enduring impact of his 1980 independent campaign came in the courts, where his victories enabled later third-party candidates like H. Ross Perot and Mr. Nader to get on the ballot. Most important was a ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1983 that threw out Ohio’s filing deadline of March 20 for independent candidates. (Mr. Anderson had not decided to run as an independent that early in 1980, but got on the ballot when a Federal District Court ordered Ohio to let him run.)Ohio defended its deadline as a way to maintain “political stability.” But the Supreme Court accepted Mr. Anderson’s argument that states could not impose substantially more onerous burdens on independent candidates than on major party nominees.Though Mr. Anderson’s candidacy had little impact on the outcome of the 1980 election, his campaign was memorable for its candor. Appearing in Des Moines with six rivals for the Republican nomination, Mr. Anderson was alone among them in saying something specific when asked if there was anything in his career he would take back if he could.“It would have been the vote that I cast in favor of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution,” he said, referring to the 1964 congressional measure that gave President Lyndon B. Johnson license to widen the war against North Vietnam.He was equally forthright in defending his call for an emergency excise tax on gasoline, unpopular though it might have been.“I did it as a security measure, to be sure,” he told the September 1980 debate audience, “because I would rather see us reduce the consumption of imported oil than have to send American boys to fight in the Persian Gulf.”An earlier version of this obituary misstated the degree of support Mr. Anderson received when he ran for the Republican presidential nomination. He was endorsed by Representative Jim Jeffords, Republican of Vermont, and some state and local elected officials; it was not the case that “no elected officials, not even his friends in the House, endorsed him.”Go to Home Page »In bold documentary style, Retro Report looks back at the major stories that shaped the world using fresh interviews, analysis and compelling archival footage. Produced by Retro Report for The New York Times.Trump’s Catchphrase: ‘We’ll See’The Happiest Guy in the WorldMichelle Wolf Roasts Trump AdministrationSão Paulo Tower Collapses in FireKim Jong-un’s Extreme MakeoverWhat Kim Jong-un’s Day In South Korea Looked LikeTrump and Macron’s Relationship, ExplainedVan Jumps Curb and Kills at Least 10 in TorontoRussians Protest Government Effort to Block Telegram AppWhat Gun Control Activists Can Learn From Old BattlesAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.In a 1942 essay for Opportunity, the journal of the Urban League, the novelist Chester B. Himes warned his readers, “The character of this writer is vulnerable, open to attack, easy to be smeared.” Lawrence P. Jackson’s captivating biography of Himes confirms this appraisal, as Himes is far from invincible, never a hero and rarely even a sympathetic figure. Though Himes had a penchant for mistreating himself and others, he was also brilliant and courageous in his depiction of the absurdity of black American life and the violence of white supremacy.Born into an educated family in 1909, Himes demonstrated academic talent early in his life, continuing in the footsteps of his two older brothers. His closest brother, Joseph, overcame a horrific childhood accident and became a prominent sociologist, but Chester was self-destructive. His parents were unhappy, as Himes’s father, a professor, struggled to find steady employment despite his education and impressive teaching record, and the Himes family moved several times during Chester’s childhood before settling in Ohio. Chester turned to prostitutes, drugs and crime to escape family problems and uneasy relationships with peers during his teenage years. He spun himself into a downward spiral, washed out of Ohio State University and landed in prison in 1928 at age 19.Himes became a writer while incarcerated. Jackson refuses to romanticize Himes’s life or his motivation for becoming an artist. There is no moral redemption in the transformation Himes undergoes while locked away. Rather, Jackson posits that Himes began writing to work through the trauma of a deadly prison fire that amplified the suffering and shame he had felt since childhood. He wrote short stories about criminality and queerness without a blueprint, drawing on the support and encouragement of his first and only same-sex partner, a fellow prisoner named Prince Rico. Himes also briefly concealed his race from editors and wrote only white characters to increase the chance his work would be published.Himes showed little interest in politics until he was released from prison in 1936 and subsequently seduced by the Communist Party, which gave him the tools to pick apart America’s racialized caste system. He was a starving artist, taking menial jobs to make ends meet as his writing gradually turned toward the material horror and psychological torment of white supremacy. Himes’s sexually charged first novel, “If He Hollers Let Him Go” (1945), earned critical acclaim and placed him in the “protest novel” tradition of writers like Richard Wright. It did not, however, establish Himes as a full-fledged celebrity or stabilize his life. Himes’s second and third novels failed to garner substantial praise from critics, and he followed Wright and other self-exiled black American artists to France in 1953.Excepting a few brief visits to America, Himes remained in Europe for the rest of his life. Jackson’s depiction of his life in France is riveting. Himes wrote at a furious pace but struggled mightily with finances, squandering fellowships, signing ill-conceived contracts with publishers and reneging on debts. He joined a vibrant artistic community in France, befriending and antagonizing the literary giants of his time, including Wright (his idol, dear friend and sometime rival) and Ralph Ellison.Jackson establishes early in the biography that intimate partnership fueled Himes’s writing, as evidenced by Prince Rico’s impact on Himes while incarcerated. Several of the characters in Himes’s early fiction are barely disguised versions of people he knew, and Jackson uses these characters in concert with Himes’s personal letters to bring his friends and colleagues to life. Himes held fast to these relationships to maintain order amid the tumult of artistic labor and alcoholism, and he drew heavily on his experiences, especially his partnerships with white women, in his writing about the psychosexual dimensions of racism. He led an entirely straight romantic life after prison, and his relationship history was replete with episodes of abuse and misbehavior that sullied the affection he showed for the women he loved.Despite Himes’s literary output, wealth and sustained praise eluded him until the final third of his career. Disappointed by his American book sales and haunted by the fact that literary elites did not hold him in the same esteem as Ellison and James Baldwin, Himes took the advice of the French editor Marcel Duhamel and started writing detective novels, beginning with “A Rage in Harlem” (1957). Seemingly overnight, Himes was reborn as a commercial and critical success in France. Himes attributed European interest in his detective novels to his pivoting away from realism and racial protest and toward a more spectacular and cinematic depiction of black life. This is at least partially true, as Himes’s work was eventually developed into the Ossie Davis-directed “Cotton Comes to Harlem” (1970), arguably the first Blaxploitation film ever produced.Yet Jackson disputes the notion that Himes’s hard-boiled detective series evades or cheapens racial politics. Instead Jackson argues that Himes’s “sizzling exaggerations … amplified and telescoped” Himes’s political concerns. The gruesome collage of Harlem fashioned by Himes was devoid of love and racial justice, which mirrored his shrewd cynicism about racial progress. But Jackson says that spilling blood, guts and tragedy on the page was not merely entertainment or catharsis, but politics, because it left room for optimism to fill the void left by despair and destruction.Many of the details of Himes’s life appear in other books, but Jackson’s research is unimpeachable. The biography is based on a kaleidoscopic mix of archival materials, close readings of Himes’s published writing and personal letters and conversations with people who knew him. Himes had a mercurial personality and led a thrilling life that might tempt a biographer to conjure a book in the spirit of its subject, but Jackson avoids this pitfall. The book is neatly written and accessible, without cheap tricks to build suspense or sway readers’ opinions.As for the thorny question of interpretation, Jackson builds measured, straightforward arguments about what Himes believed mostly through close readings of his published work. Carefully chosen excerpts allow Jackson to comment on the techniques, themes and characters most central to Himes’s legacy. The reader senses that Jackson, a professor of English and history at Johns Hopkins University, has even more to say but restrains himself. The biography does not suffer, but one yearns to hear more from Jackson about the social conditions of Himes’s work, literary comparisons between Himes and his contemporaries, and Himes’s impact on writers who followed him. All told, “Chester B. Himes” is a bracing journey through the life of an uncompromising writer who considered himself “an evil, highly sensitive, unsuccessful old man — but … not an American Negro in the usual connotation of the word.”Michael P. Jeffries, a professor of American Studies at Wellesley College, is the author of three books about race in American culture, the latest of which, “Behind the Laughs: Community and Inequality in Comedy,” was published this month.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byStewart Patrick, the director of the International Institutions and Global Governance Program at the Council on Foreign Relations, elaborated on these trends in an email:The most salient political division today is not between conservatives and liberals in the United States or social democrats in the United Kingdom and France, but between nationalists and globalists. The victory of the Leave campaign in Britain, the triumph of Trump, and the unprecedented success of Marine Le Pen’s National Front (albeit in a losing effort) were underpinned by economic and cultural anxiety that transcended traditional ideological lines — and a rejection of conventional parties and a political establishment that had too long ignored those concerns.Trump accelerated a realignment in the electorate around racism, across several different measures of racial animus — and that it helped him win. By contrast, we found little evidence to suggest individual economic distress benefited Trump. The American political system is sorting so that racial progressivism and economic progressivism are aligned in the Democratic Party and racial conservatism and economic conservatism are aligned in the Republican Party.On the surface, the success of the British Labour Party in the elections two weeks ago would appear to stand apart. But Labour’s gains were not based on improved margins in traditionally Labour leaning constituencies. Corbyn’s Labour Party actually lost ground on its home turf, but it more than made up for those setbacks by prevailing in Conservative constituencies.In other words, the Labour Party in England can no longer be considered a labor party in the traditional sense of representing the working class. In this respect, there is a growing demographic convergence between the Democratic Party, the Labour Party in England, Macron’s En Marche in France, the voters who elected Van der Bellen president of Austria and those who voted for the People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy in the Netherlands.In each of these plebiscites, education emerged as the strongest predictor of votes for a right populist option, where the less educated chose it more often than those with degrees.According to Stewart Patrick of the Council on Foreign Relations, globalization and the Great Recession of 2007-9 have resulted in a “pervasive anxiety” that providesfertile grounds for populists who promise a reassertion of control and national sovereignty, including over borders, as well as a renewed focus on those left behind in the global economy.Patrick shares with a number of internationalists the hope that Macron and En Marche represent a viable political solution to contemporary conflicts that could be applied in other countries:Macron’s genius has been to argue that he can thread the political needle, by embracing globalization and reinforcing social protections to compensate those exposed to its downside. In the process, he has obliterated traditional parties of the left and the right, while promising a synthesis tailor made for the twenty-first century. If he can bring it off, he will become a model for other leaders to follow — including in the United States.Even more striking, among all voters, Clinton won 52-42 among the college-educated while Trump carried those without degrees 51-44.The “ascendant militant wing” — a colorful, if controversial, description of the Sanders-Warren wing of the party — has the moral high ground within Democratic ranks but the votes they want the party to seek are those of some of the least reachable constituencies — white men and women whose views on immigration, race and political correctness are in direct conflict with liberal idealism. It would be an extraordinary challenge to get these particular voters to join with minorities and progressive activists.Liberals must take seriously Americans’ yearning for social cohesion. To promote both mass immigration and greater economic redistribution, they must convince more native-born white Americans that immigrants will not weaken the bonds of national identity.In practical terms, Beinart writes, “it means celebrating America’s diversity less, and its unity more.”The hard partis backing tough immigration enforcement so that path to citizenship doesn’t become a magnet that entices more immigrants to enter the U.S. illegally.Beinart cites Karen Stenner’s 2005 book, “The Authoritarian Dynamic,” in which she wrote:Exposure to difference, talking about difference, and applauding difference — the hallmarks of liberal democracy — are the surest ways to aggravate those who are innately intolerant, and to guarantee the increased expression of their predispositions in manifestly intolerant attitudes and behaviors. Paradoxically, then, it would seem that we can best limit intolerance of difference by parading, talking about, and applauding our sameness.Americans, Beinart contends,know that liberals celebrate diversity. They’re less sure that liberals celebrate unity. And Obama’s ability to effectively do the latter probably contributed to the fact that he — a black man with a Muslim-sounding name — twice won a higher percentage of the white vote than did Hillary Clinton.What we are seeing now is the replacement of class-based politics, a trend apparent in the United States and Europe. This gives us a more racialized and xenophobic politics, on one hand, and a politics capitalizing on increasing levels of education and open-mindedness in the electorate on the other. If the building of a viable left coalition is possible, it is likely to require some thoughtful and humane co-optation in the form of deference to our limits and boundaries.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAppreciationsThese were often turbulent times: captured hostages and roaring inflation under Jimmy Carter; “morning in America” for some, and budgetary austerity for others, under Ronald Reagan; and the end of the Cold War under the first President Bush. And at home, the near-collapse and gradual revival of New York City. The role of the editorial page, in Jack’s view, was to add the institutional voice of The Times to the national and local conversation on a wide range of issues, and to that end, with great humor and even greater patience, he encouraged a robust and often contentious staff of more than a dozen writers to produce lively and thoughtful pieces on their specialties for an audience of demanding readers — of which the most demanding was Jack himself.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe relentless focus on the white working class in the aftermath of the election of President Trump has overshadowed a much larger bloc of voters, the roughly 65 million service sector workers whose partisan loyalty is up for grabs.This immense and diverse employment sector is set to become a battleground in the struggle between Democrats and Republicans.Mark Muro, a Brookings senior fellow, noted in an email:While the term "service sector" has become somewhat pejorative, with its ambience of lousy locally-traded food-service and maintenance jobsit also includesresearch services, education services, and professional services like consulting.Muro sees potential for Democratic Party growth in the service sector, arguing thatthe ongoing "servitization” of the economy is a big trend and it likely will benefit the Democratic Party for years to come.Manufacturing jobs moved in the opposite direction, falling from 18.2 million in 1974 to 12.4 million.Richard Florida, the director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, has conducted some of the most detailed analyses of employment sectors.“Republicans dominate working class metros,” Florida noted in an email. “Democrats dominate knowledge-professional-creative class metros.”Standing between the working and creative classes are low-paid service workers. Florida places better paid service workers who are technically in the service class — lawyers, teachers, social workers, many high tech digital employees — into the creative class.With this more restrictive definition, Florida notes, service workers are stillthe largest class with 65 million workers, about 45 percent of the work force. Low wage routine jobs in food prep retail, office work, personal and health services. Majority women, multiracial, multiethnic.How do they vote? Florida finds that this population currently splits its vote evenly between the two parties — “no statistical significance for either Trump or Clinton.” According to Florida, for Democrats, to keep “bemoaning the loss of the white working class may be a big mistake.”Florida argues that low-paid service workers are the population that Democrats need to mobilize. He suggests a far more targeted approach:Not working class places. The way to do this is with an aggressive inclusive growth agenda: upgrade service jobs, higher geographically-indexed minimum wage, better labor laws to protect service and caring work and jobs, universal basic income, affordable housing. I could go on. This is the new winning cross-class, geographic coalition.Patrick Adler, a doctoral candidate in urban planning at U.C.L.A. who collaborated with Florida on this research, does not disagree, but has some caveats. He sent me data he compiled that suggests that low-paid service workers are by no means guaranteed to become loyal Democrats. Much depends on ethnic and other demographic characteristics.Adler analyzed 2016 voter information from 75 metropolitan areas with absolute majorities (at least 50 percent) of low-wage service workers — cities like Ocean City, N.J., Hot Springs, Ark. and Las Vegas.Adler’s data shows that the strongest Clinton metro areas were 49.8 percent Latino, while Trump’s best metros were 8.7 percent Latino. Clinton metros had four times the percentage of foreign-born voters (at 20 percent) as Trump’s (at 5 percent).“What stands out to me,” Adler wrote,is that solidly Clinton service metros tend to be immigrant gateways like Miami, McAllen and Orlando, while solidly Trump service metros tend to be highly segregated (i.e., black/white segregated) Southern places.The demographics of the pro-Clinton metros point to additional problems facing Democrats who seek to build support among service workers. The high levels of immigrant, Latino and foreign-born voters in these communities means that it is more challenging to register and turn them out.Democrats, however, know that they need to get more votes from workers without college degrees, and that their best opportunity to do so is among service workers.For example, 77 percent of the 5.8 million employed in personal care and service occupations are women; 72 percent of the 17.7 million people working in office and administrative support occupations are women; and 75.6 percent of the 8.9 million in health care occupations.Democratic operatives and union organizers are starting to mobilize lower-paid service workers in preparation for the 2018 midterms and the 2020 presidential elections. The Service Workers International Union is gearing up for a major political and union organizing campaign in the Midwest.Union officials estimate that there are 64 million workers across the country who make less than $15 an hour.“Only half are registered, and only half of them voted. 48 million of them did not vote in 2016,” one union leader, who asked not to be identified so that he could be forthright, told me. A big problem last year, he said, was thatHillary Clinton didn’t inspire anyone. Why the hell stand in line if it’s just to vote for more of the same?Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster and strategist, wrote me by email to say that he thinks Florida’s analysis “is very smart.” Greenberg, like many pollsters, had been broadly categorizing voters without college degrees as working class, but recently he has begun to change the practice:For the first time, we are asking occupation to try to get at this — and so, I think there really is potential for Democrats to gain here. This is a real insight into what is possible.Service industries are where the growth strategies of organized labor have been mostly focused for 40 years, and where most of the growth has occurred. While union membership has stagnated on the bottom line at around 16 million over that span, the composition of the 16 million changed dramatically, millions of health care, personal service, education and government workers (and some retail) joining, while roughly the same number in other sectors “leaving.”Republican leaders, Booth argues, are fully aware of the dangers of an organized and politically mobilized service sector. “The effort to strangle this opportunity has been the top strategic priority of the GOP” since it gained power in the 2010 midterm elections, he contended. These efforts include state right-to-work legislation, ending automatic deduction of union dues, severe restrictions on the issues permitted at the bargaining table, and other restraints on organized labor.Booth notes that in 2014, Democrats and unions successfully backed ballot initiatives to raise the minimum wage in three red states, Alaska, Arkansas and South Dakota, “but little or none of the support spilled over to help Mark Pryor, Mark Begich and Rick Weiland,” the losing Democratic Senate candidates in those states.One key obstacle for Democrats seeking to recruit service workers is that such a mobilization would require stronger class appeals and less emphasis on identity politics than party leaders have been prepared to make.If, as my SEIU source says, “politics doesn’t answer people’s problems,” then you are “not going to get majorities willing to get into the fight.”Similar tension has been a constant source of intraparty conflict dating back nearly 50 years to the 1968 presidential primary battle between Hubert Humphrey, Eugene McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy.The conflict will not be resolved by November 2018. But the ideas suggested by Richard Florida are a start. Nothing instills the drive to adopt successful strategies like the anguish of defeat and the relegation to minority status.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byDuring his primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, Senator Bernie Sanders, a self-proclaimed socialist, lived up to the grand Democratic tradition of favoring the underdog at the expense of the rich.The Sanders tax-and-spending plan throws into sharp relief the problem that the changing demographic makeup of the Democratic coalition creates for party leaders. Trouble brews when a deeply held commitment to the underdog comes into conflict with the self-interested pocketbook and lifestyle concerns of the upper middle class.Higher up the ladder, the tax increase would grow to $130,275 for those in the top 5 percent, to $525,365 for those in the top one percent and to $3.1 million for the top 0.1 percent.We must send a message to the billionaire class: “you can’t have it all.” You can’t get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry.But Sanders spoke to the Democratic Party of 2016, not the Democratic Party of the Great Depression.In days past, a proposal to slam the rich to reward the working and middle classes meant hitting Republicans to benefit Democrats.In other words, 41 years ago, the year Jimmy Carter won the presidency, the Sanders proposal would have made political sense.But what about now?In the past, Democrats could support progressive, redistributive policies knowing that the costs would fall largely on Republicans. That is no longer the case. Now supporting these policies requires the party to depend on the altruistic idealism of millions of supporters who, despite being relatively well off, often feel financially pressed themselves.This problem applies not only to tax policy, but even more to social policies concerning education and housing.Reeves argues that those in the top 20 percent of the income distribution have become an increasingly isolated class; if the country is to restore the American tradition of upward mobility, this elite will have to pay for it.“The upper middle class has been having it pretty good. It is about time those of us in the favored fifth recognized our privileged position,” Reeves writes. As members of this class protect their status and economic gains for themselves and their children, Reeves contends, they have capitalized on a host of less visible forces — exclusionary zoning, the clustering of elites, legacy college admissions, disproportionate political influence — to build a protective wall, keeping those in the lower quintiles of the income distribution from breaking in.As Reeves points out,it is a stubborn mathematical fact that, at any given time, the top fifth of the income distribution can accommodate only 20 percent of the population. Relative intergenerational mobility is a zero sum game. For someone to move up the ladder, someone else must move down.Even the most liberal parents are unlikely to be comfortable with the idea that their own children should fall down the scale in the name of making room for a smarter kid from a poorer home.His proposals calling on the upper middle class to abandon unfair “opportunity hoarding” raise a basic political question. Can the Democratic Party, as it is currently constructed, maintain its commitment to a redistributive agenda? Put another way, can a political party impose costs on its own constituents, especially those voters who make up the most influential faction of the party: the affluent and well educated?The preliminary evidence from actual events is that demanding sacrifice poses major risks. Asking people to think of themselves as compassionate and to pay higher taxes is one thing — many Democrats have made that leap — but ask them to live in a mixed income neighborhood or ask them to have their kid give up her spot at Princeton, and you get a different response.“The idea was sensible, simple, and progressive,” Reeves writes. “The episode was a brutal reminder that sensible policy is not always easy politics.” Reeves noted that two of the leading Democratic opponents of the 529 reform, Nancy Pelosi and Chris Van Hollen, who was elected Maryland’s junior senator in November but was a congressman when Obama proposed it, represented districts where “almost half their constituents are in households with six-figure incomes.”Perhaps the most problematic issue for affluent Democrats are proposals calling for expanded construction of affordable housing in middle-to-upper-middle class neighborhoods.Segregation is a disaster for the poor. It crushes upward mobility by cutting off resources to essential public goods like quality education. Yet, in almost every city and metropolitan municipality there is a strong entrenched group committed to using political regulations to perpetuate segregation. These people are more commonly known as homeowners.The Lucas Valley Homeowner’s Association was formed to oppose “high density development." Likewise, the Marin Community Alliance was formed “to protect and preserve the character" of the area.The response, Rothwell continued,is sadly typical. Since zoning’s modern origins in the 1920s, homeowner associations and other groups have banded together to keep racial minorities and non-affluent people out of their suburban municipalities and neighborhoods.In an effort to further explore this question, I asked Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale, two questions:As the share of Democrats who are well-educated and upper middle class grows, how can the party continue to advocate redistributive policies? Can a party survive that calls on its own members to pay the costs of policies designed to help those on the bottom rungs?Hacker replied:The evidence is clear that even relatively affluent Democrats are more supportive of redistribution than a typical Republican — at least in opinion surveys. This general support, however, doesn’t always translate into support for pro-opportunity policies at the local level.Affordable housing, Hacker wrote, “is far and away the best example.” Opposition to zoning allowing denser and more affordable housing “comes not just from well-off residents but also from landlords who get monopoly rents.” The inherent zero-sum thinking underlying not-in-my-backyard approachesprevents positive-sum solutions that could reduce the economic conflict between poorer members of the Democratic coalition and the more affluent segments.Hacker concluded his email on an upbeat note, contending that “demography is not destiny” and that Democratic leaderscould work more aggressively to identify and create positive-sum solutions — pro-growth policies that both lift up the least advantaged and attenuate class-based cleavages within its own coalition.Arthur Lupia, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, less optimistically put his finger on the core problem for Democrats:The Democratic Party is evolving in multiple ways that separate it from the living conditions of large numbers of working-class Americans.The result, Lupia wrote, is thatmany Democrats now know less, and appear to care less, about the day-to-day struggles of many working class Americans. Hillary Clinton is an example of a Democrat who struggled to be seen by many such Americans as having a sincere and credible grasp of their concerns.Hacker and Lupia, while differing in outlook, together raise a basic concern about the contemporary Democratic Party: the casual, if not negligent, willingness of the party elite to adopt policies and positions, however worthy, without regard to the costs such policies impose on others.The Democratic delegates were well to the left of Democratic voters, a trend that continues. Seven out of ten delegates said that abortion should be generally available and 20 percent said abortion should be available under “stricter limits”; 43 percent of Democratic voters supported generally available abortion and 39 percent said under “stricter limits.”More than 8 out of 10 Democratic delegates in 2008 agreed that “government should do more to solve national problems,” while 54 percent of Democratic voters shared that view, according to American National Election Studies. Hillary Clinton’s 2016 Democratic coalition clearly reflected the same priorities.As the Democratic elite and the Democratic electorate as a whole become increasingly well educated and affluent, the party faces a crucial question. Can it maintain its crucial role as the representative of the least powerful, the marginalized, the most oppressed, many of whom belong to disadvantaged racial and ethnic minority groups — those on the bottom rungs of the socioeconomic ladder?The steady loss of Democratic support in the white working class, culminating in Trump’s Electoral College victory on the backs of these white voters, must inevitably send a loud and clear signal to the Democratic elite: The more the party abandons the moral imperative to represent the interests of the less well off of all races and ethnicities, the more it risks a repetition of the electoral disaster of 2016 in 2018, 2020 and beyond.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byVernon J. Ehlers, a physicist and longtime Republican congressman from Michigan whose scientific background led him to embrace political positions at odds with those of his party, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Grand Rapids, Mich. He was 83.Rick Treur, Dr. Ehlers’s former campaign manager, said the cause was Alzheimer’s disease.A nuclear physicist and college professor before he entered politics, Dr. Ehlers was elected to Michigan’s third district in 1993 and retired in 2011. Scientists were, and remain, a rarity in elected politics in America; he said he was the first research physicist ever elected to Congress.Dr. Ehlers was part of the wave of Republicans that took control of the House and Senate after the 1994 elections, leaving President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, without a majority in Congress for the rest of his presidency.Dr. Ehlers was a fiscal conservative who worked to enact Speaker Newt Gingrich’s policy agenda, known as the “Contract with America” — an ambitious set of proposals that often led to compromises with the executive branch. He stood with his party on key issues like balancing the budget, limiting the size of the federal government and repealing a ban on assault weapons.But Dr. Ehlers often disagreed with Republicans on education and the environment. He voted against cuts to the National Science Foundation and a proposal to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, both efforts favored by Republicans. He voted for an increase in funding for a student loan program that many of them opposed.He led a comprehensive review of federal science policy; helped revamp standards for education in science, technology, engineering and math; and helped allocate $270 million to clean the Great Lakes. He also led the way in modernizing the House’s internet presence and email system. His goal, he said, was to create something “so simple that an adult can use it.”Dr. Ehlers coaxed his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reconsider scientific issues, like the cause of climate change, when data appeared to contradict their beliefs.“I just had to go around, continuously talking to people about issues and educating them,” Dr. Ehlers told the NPR program “Talk of the Nation” in 2012. “It took an immense amount of my time.”In one instance, Mr. Treur, the former campaign manager, said, Dr. Ehlers argued in favor of efforts to slow the spread of zebra mussels, an invasive mollusk that had colonized American waters. At one point he had to correct a colleague, who exclaimed, “I don’t know why we have to spend money researching the muscles of zebras!”Misunderstandings like these led Dr. Ehlers to urge others in the scientific community to engage in politics.“You can grumble all you want about those idiots in the Congress,” he told NPR. “But if you’re not helping to educate the idiots, you’re not doing your job.”Vernon James Ehlers was born on Feb. 6, 1934, in Pipestone, Minn. His mother, the former Alice Doorn, was a homemaker, and his father, the Rev. John W. C. Ehlers, was the pastor of a Christian Reformed church in Pipestone. Dr. Ehlers said that his faith’s commitment to service helped persuade him to enter politics.He graduated from high school in Celeryville, Ohio, then studied for three years at Calvin College in Grand Rapids before completing his undergraduate degree in physics at the University of California, Berkeley, in 1956. He earned his doctorate in nuclear physics there four years later.Dr. Ehlers spent the next few years teaching at Berkeley before returning to Calvin in 1966. He also worked as a volunteer science adviser for his congressman at the time, Gerald R. Ford, the future president.Dr. Ehlers served as a state representative and state senator before he won a special election to fill the seat of Representative Paul B. Henry, who had died of a brain tumor in 1993.He married Johanna Meulink in 1958. She survives him, as do two sons, Brian and Todd; two daughters, Heidi Rienstra and Marla Ehlers; two sisters, Frances Engle and Henrietta Buurma; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.Despite Dr. Ehlers’s efforts, scientists remain a minuscule part of the Congress, according to the Congressional Research Services. Aside from a smattering of engineers and medical doctors, there are only three members of Congress — among 540 representatives and senators — with backgrounds in science: a chemist, a microbiologist and a lone physicist, Dr. Foster.Follow @dslotnik on Twitter.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWhen President Trump nominated Christopher Wray on Wednesday to lead the F.B.I., it appeared that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey had finally made an imprint on an administration he was supposed to have helped shape all along.The governor had publicly endorsed Mr. Wray for the job on June 1 and let it be known on the day of the nomination that he was his guy. “When I was at the absolute lowest point of my professional life, he’s who I called,” Mr. Christie said, referring to when the Bridgegate scandal broke in January 2014.Mr. Wray, a lawyer with King & Spalding and a former federal prosecutor, served as the governor’s counsel during Bridgegate and helped him avoid legal consequences, including testifying in court. But he could not protect the governor from the political ramifications of the scandal, which revealed a cutthroat reward-and-punish style of politics that played a part in torpedoing Mr. Christie’s presidential hopes.Even so, Mr. Trump shortlisted Mr. Christie as a possible running mate and for a time kept him on as the chairman of his transition team, where he was entrusted to fill high-level positions in the new administration. Though the governor ended up being sidelined from that job, the blood-sport political culture that spawned Bridgegate has managed to worm its way into the Trump administration.Several Bridgegate figures are now in the Trump inner circle — no surprise, considering that Mr. Trump and Mr. Christie have been friends since they first dined together in the early 2000s. At the time, Mr. Christie was a federal prosecutor and Mr. Trump was running a highly regulated casino business.AdvertisementThey share a New York-New Jersey style of transactional what-have-you-done-for-me-lately politics, where policy seems secondary, ethics rules are meant to be bent, apologies are rare, secrecy is sacrosanct and lawyers are plentiful.AdvertisementBridgegate culture was exemplified most recently by the firing of James Comey from the F.B.I.: If you’re not giving us absolute loyalty, you’re dead to us.One of the president’s closest advisers, his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, had professed admiration for Bridgegate, the week of orchestrated traffic chaos in Fort Lee, N.J., in September 2013, meant to punish the town’s mayor for not endorsing Mr. Christie for re-election.Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kushner was writing to him soon after Mr. Wildstein had resigned from the Port Authority in the mushrooming scandal. Mr. Kushner was consoling Mr. Wildstein, his former executive vice president at the Kushner-owned Observer Media Group, which he had left to take a political job at the Port Authority.(As it turned out, Mr. Kushner himself seems adept at the politics of revenge. He helped force the governor out of the transition job; Mr. Christie had sent Mr. Kushner’s father to prison while he was the United States attorney in New Jersey.)Mr. Trump had nothing to do with Bridgegate. And yet in later choosing Mr. Christie as his transition chairman, Mr. Trump empowered the governor to bring on similar people. After all, for his own team, the governor had hired Mr. Wildstein, who spied on enemies at the Port Authority. Mr. Christie’s administration also maintained naughty and nice lists of local mayors. Bridgegate culture is about winning, and giving second and third chances only to the most powerful, while underlings lose their jobs, or worse.One of those pushed aside was the governor’s former deputy chief of staff, Bridget Anne Kelly, who wrote the infamous “time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee” email that set the scheme in motion. Federal prosecutors said at trial that she neither conceived the plot nor had the sole authority to sign off on it. Near penniless, she faces 18 months in federal prison.AdvertisementOne of Mr. Stepien’s aides was Matt Mowers, whose failure to secure a Christie endorsement from the Fort Lee mayor prompted the retaliation. Mr. Mowers has a top position at the State Department now, working outside Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s office but answering to the White House.Mr. Mowers and Mr. Stepien have denied wrongdoing and neither was charged in Bridgegate — and with Mr. Wray as his lawyer, neither was the governor, who has also said he did nothing wrong.The subsequent trial last fall proved particularly damning nonetheless: Testimony revealed Mr. Christie was made aware of key details of the plot while it was being carried out.Mr. Christie, whose term ends in January, remains one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal supporters and apologists. After Mr. Comey’s testimony was released last week, Mr. Christie dismissed on MSNBC any loyalty demands the president may have made to the F.B.I. director as mere “normal New York City conversation.”The implication was that Mr. Comey, a North Jersey native who was a United States attorney in New York for two years, didn’t understand the vernacular. Perhaps he would have better understood normal New Jersey conversation, like “Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementALBANY — A German couple walked into their apartment building in Harlem one warm evening in 1973. There were shouts, screams, and two strangers ran out — muggers. They took off down the street.Three men chatting on that block of Riverside Drive West watched — a state official, a neighborhood businessman and a newly minted Democratic district leader holding a can of fruit cocktail that he was bringing home. He reared back and hurled it at the muggers. He missed. So the three bystanders stopped bystanding and started chasing.“It was a lot of fun,” the Democratic leader, Herman D. Farrell Jr., said last week, laughing and looking back 44 years to that day, past a political lifetime far longer than most, and thought of that fast and fearless version of himself. Mr. Farrell caught up with one of the muggers and grabbed his neck, only to be flipped over the man’s shoulders and thrown to the ground. But the three friends caught both men, and Mr. Farrell walked away unhurt.Advertisement“Staying alive,” he said.Advertisement“I believe you can get things done if you control the mechanics,” he said then.Along the way, Mr. Farrell built something elusive among many in his chosen calling: a reputation for trustworthiness and for decency in his treatment of rivals.“He is the exemplar of the kind of compromising and deal-making politician that all of a sudden everybody longs for,” said Richard L. Brodsky, a former assemblyman from Westchester. “He was and still is the most elegant person in that chamber.”Charles B. Rangel, the former congressman representing Harlem and Washington Heights, praised his friend’s candor. “He would speak his mind,” he said. “If you’re going to be in for the long run, it’s much easier to know what your true convictions are than to try to remember what you said the last time the question was asked.”Mr. Farrell has heard a lot of these sorts of things since he announced his retirement earlier this month. “I’m really impressed by this guy Farrell,” he said in his Albany office last week, and shrugged. “Next year they won’t remember my name.”The son of a tailor, he has been known as an impeccable dresser throughout his adult life, weaving through his district in Harlem or back and forth to Albany in his cherished convertibles, pulling his hair back into a ponytail when the wind blew it in his face.He said whatever reputation for decorum and for straight talk that he has picked up owes to his upbringing — “My mother would whip me if I didn’t have class,” he said — and childhood in Harlem.“Growing up, we were all different,” he said. “I’m black, Steve’s Jewish. You learned how to insult people without getting killed. I can cut you, because I know how to cut, but on the other hand, you know how to do it just right.”AdvertisementHe also learned how to learn. “When I was a child, I couldn’t decide if I was an idiot or smart, because I’m dyslexic,” he said. “I didn’t know what dyslexic was.” Nor did his teachers. He was never a strong student, but he learned how to think creatively to solve problems that others managed more easily, a strategy of casting a wide net for preparation that he said made him a strong debater in later years.“I can’t write a lick, but I can do things,” he said. “I keep things in my head.”David N. Dinkins, the former New York City mayor, said Mr. Farrell had a gift for reading the room before a vote was taken and knowing the outcome. “The thing he was best at was counting,” he said last week. “It’s very important to know how to count.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Several political veterans described Mr. Farrell’s most significant defeat as a sort of victory. In 1985, he ran against Edward I. Koch in the mayoral primary, winning just 13 percent of the vote. But his race was later seen as a steppingstone for Mr. Dinkins’ election five years later.John LoCicero was on the other side of the 1985 race, a longtime adviser to Mr. Koch. “Of all the politicians I have dealt with, when he’s on my side or against, he and I, and Koch, always had a good relationship,” Mr. LoCicero said. “When he gave his word, that was his bond. I never heard anybody put a bad word on Denny.”Joseph R. Lentol, another longtime assemblyman, said Mr. Farrell’s style stands out today. “He debates like a gentleman and makes his point and doesn’t get nasty,” he said. “Maybe it’s a lost art.”Today, Mr. Farrell still stands tall, at 6-foot-4, but leaner than he would like, having lost enough weight to send him to the tailor’s for adjustments to his trademark suits. He stops to catch his breath after a walk across a room. He said he is experiencing new difficulties with memory, and has been, he realizes now, for about a year.“I didn’t catch that I was not functioning as well,” he said. “I should have quit then,” before the last legislative session, he said. “After I got through this year, I realized I had to get out now.”Advertisement“I liked the man,” Mr. Farrell said. “He was a German who was in a concentration camp and he didn’t have to be. His wife was Jewish but he wasn’t. He kept her alive and kept himself alive.”Mr. Farrell was already a grandfather when, at age 73, he became a father again with the birth of his daughter, Sophia. She is now 12. (“I think it kind of kept him young, to have a young daughter,” Mr. Lentol said.) In announcing his stepping down, Mr. Farrell repeatedly mentioned her and his wish to spend more time with his family.“I’ve got to get her to focus better,” he said. “She’s a whip.”As for the future, Mr. Farrell sees no downside to his generation’s passing of the torch, and in fact, sees improvement. “What really impresses me as I leave is that women will reach an equal place soon,” he said of the Assembly membership. He is promoting Al Taylor, his chief of staff, as his replacement.“He came to me as an intern,” more than 30 years ago, he said. “I told him, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll be out soon. You can take over.’”“The new world, he understands,” Mr. Farrell said. “I don’t.”He smiled. “It’s a good thing,” he said.Go to Home Page »