AdvertisementSupported byBut the bold declarations of Mr. Rauner, who arrived pledging to “shake things up,” have wilted some. As he runs for a second term, Mr. Rauner is one of the most vulnerable incumbent governors in the nation, having spent much of his brief political career clashing with Democrats who control the State Legislature over labor unions, taxes, the state’s budget and schools.Mr. Rauner, 61, who sold himself as an outsider who would bring a businessman’s sensibility to the task of untangling Illinois’s political and fiscal morass, now finds himself fighting for re-election on two dizzying fronts. On the right, Jeanne Ives, a Republican legislator and Army veteran known for her hard-right stances on taxes, immigration and abortion, has forced him into a contested primary on Tuesday. And on the left, a who’s who of Democratic circles wants to take on Mr. Rauner this fall, including J.B. Pritzker, a billionaire heir and entrepreneur; Chris Kennedy, a businessman and son of Robert F. Kennedy; and Daniel Biss, a suburban state senator.On one tape from 2008, collected as part of an F.B.I. wiretapping of Mr. Blagojevich, Mr. Pritzker suggested that Mr. Blagojevich appoint Jesse White, the longtime Illinois secretary of state, who is black, to fill the empty Senate seat. On the secretly recorded conversation, Mr. Pritzker called Mr. White “the least offensive” choice who would provide cover “on the African-American thing.” Mr. Pritzker has since apologized for his comments, which have threatened to derail crucial support among black voters. (Mr. Blagojevich was convicted of corruption charges in 2011 and is currently serving a 14-year sentence at a federal prison in Colorado.)As governor, Mr. Rauner is perhaps best known for presiding over a budget crisis that paralyzed Illinois for two years, pressing for so-called right-to-work provisions, and publicly sparring with Michael J. Madigan, the powerful Democratic speaker of the House who also serves as the chairman of the state’s Democratic Party. On the campaign trail, Mr. Rauner sometimes seems to be running not against his actual opponents, but against Mr. Madigan, whose longstanding, entrenched role at the center of state politics has become a matter of debate. In recent weeks, Mr. Madigan has been under intense scrutiny for his handling of sexual harassment complaints at the Capitol and in his political organization.Mr. Rauner declined an interview.“Throughout his first term, Gov. Rauner has worked to grow good jobs, fight corruption and save taxpayer dollars,” Will Allison, a spokesman for Mr. Rauner’s campaign, said in an email. “The governor’s reform agenda is the perfect contrast to J.B. Pritzker’s outspoken willingness to raise taxes and embrace one-party rule in Illinois under Mike Madigan.”Mr. Pritzker, 53, has received prized endorsements from Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and labor unions including the Illinois A.F.L.-C.I.O. After holding a campaign round table last month with Latino legislators at a Mexican restaurant in Chicago’s Bucktown neighborhood, Mr. Pritzker said that he had decided to run because of his concern that the state is “under siege,” led by a governor “who is a failure.”“Bruce Rauner kind of put on his Carhartt jacket and tried to convince people in central and southern Illinois that he’s one of them. He’s from Winnetka,” Mr. Pritzker said, referring to the moneyed North Shore suburb where Mr. Rauner owns a house. “He told them he was going to stand up for them, and he hasn’t.”Mr. Kennedy, a real-estate developer, said in an interview that he had decided to run partly because of his worries over people leaving Illinois, a sign of economic decline. Mr. Rauner was given a chance to succeed and has failed, he said.“I think he’s emerged as the worst governor in the history of Illinois and maybe the worst sitting governor in the United States,” Mr. Kennedy said. “Maybe he was a good investor, but he’s a terrible C.E.O.”After Mr. Pritzker’s tape-recorded conversations with Mr. Blagojevich were released, Bishop Larry Trotter, senior pastor of Sweet Holy Spirit Church on the South Side of Chicago, withdrew an invitation for Mr. Pritzker to speak to his congregation, he said, because there “was such rage in the community” over his remarks.“A white, wealthy man gets to say whatever he wants to say about black people and insult black people. How can he be our governor?” he asked in an interview.After meeting with Mr. Pritzker, the bishop reinstated the invitation to speak at his church, which Mr. Pritzker accepted, a spokeswoman for the candidate said.For the moment, Mr. Rauner must contend with Ms. Ives, his Republican challenger in next week’s race. Mr. Rauner has dismissed her as a “fringe” candidate, but Ms. Ives, a lawmaker from suburban Wheaton who graduated from West Point, portrays herself as the true conservative in the race. She says Mr. Rauner is too moderate on social issues. She has described same-sex partnerships as “completely disordered” relationships that endanger children, and has rejected the idea of transgender rights, “something that is made up from the media.”“And you know how you’re going to solve it? Fathers in the home,” she said, as the audience booed.Perhaps most offended was Mr. Kennedy, who was 4 years old in 1968 when his father, Robert F. Kennedy, was assassinated.“Well, I wish I could agree with you. I didn’t have a father in my life. Somebody shot him,” he said, as audience members clapped and rose to their feet. Mr. Kennedy then walked off the stage and left the building.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS