At 47, Jay-Z thinks about where he’s been, where he’s going and what he’s leaving behind. It’s all there on his latest album, “4:44.”Supported by“Old school” still has some currency in hip-hop. It nods to forebears, styles and history. “Old” is a different story. “Old” means you’re past your prime. It means you have nothing new to say — and even if you did, who would want to listen? “Old” means maybe you know what’s new, but you want to do it the way you’ve always done it. So “old” also means fixed, settled, stuck.By those standards, Jay-Z, at 47, might seem old. Standards are presumptuous, though, because, really, what do we know about “old” rappers? Only that they don’t rap as much as they used to. I mean, they’re still around — but as part of back-patting nostalgia (in concert or on HBO) or hosting the Grammys or cooking with Martha Stewart. Maybe they’ve still got it. But vital new music is secondary at best.But it’s better than good: a gorgeously produced stab at self-examination (it runs less than the length of a standard therapy session) that suggests a new direction for rap’s elder statesmen. It also demonstrates a way that certain black artists can reckon with middle age — by accepting the emotionalism, humor and self-criticism that come naturally to a current generation of younger rappers.It’s entirely possible that Jay-Z arrived to record “Magna Carta” aware that there’s not much of a road map for a rapper in his 40s, especially one whose body of work and reputation are great enough to haunt him. His clever, brash, kaleidoscopically grim 1996 debut, “Reasonable Doubt,” is as much a work of memoir of life in the street-level drug trade as it is an album.On it, he raps with the impunity of a mafia don. It’s a distinction that’s always kept him seeming a little older than everybody else, while, eventually, holding his competitors’ youth against them. On songs like “Change Clothes,” with Pharrell, from 2003, and “Off That,” with a young-and-hungry Drake, from 2009, he was all too happy to display a cranky old-soul impatience, arguing that because he thinks he is grown up, his peers should, too.“Y’all [epithet] acting way too tough/Throw on a suit, and get it tapered up,” he implored on “Change Clothes.”But eventually that sense of superiority came to sound like an exercise. Rap is a language art, and no matter your age, you need something to say. The problem with “Magna Carta” wasn’t that Jay-Z was too old. It is that he sounded bored. The music was disconnected from life, and his materialism sounded passé even for hip-hop. Fashion, art, love, even philanthropy were spiked with a testy self-consciousness. The whole thing reeked of midlife crisis.Then Beyoncé released “Lemonade,” and more or less told him. It arrived in the spring of 2016 and announced to the world that his sense of risk — as a former drug dealer, an entrepreneur and a womanizer — has a cost: her love.It’s believable that Jay-Z really had run out of fresh ideas. But if he were going to keep making new records, “Lemonade” demanded at least a partial response to Beyoncé’s agony and the scope of her artistry.The resulting album isn’t trying to match either. “Lemonade” is a fully processed, entirely emotional performance. “4:44” is Tony Soprano at his first couple of sessions with Dr. Melfi. He’s not totally sure why he’s here and is occasionally petty about it. Jay-Z acknowledges the pain he caused without entirely agreeing to own it.It’s the production, by the longtime hip-hop and R&B producer No I. D., that most gives the album its psychology. He puts samples by the Alan Parsons Project, Stevie Wonder, Nina Simone, the Clark Sisters and Hannah Williams & the Affirmations to masterly use. Where Jay-Z is inclined to be passive, the music insinuates. It makes him seem more culpable, vulnerable, spiritual and transparent than he might even realize. No I. D. is a studio wizard. He’s also Dr. Melfi.Jay-Z’s old creative and sexual promiscuity have been replaced by an act of commitment. No more women, just his wife. No more gluts of great producers, just this one. These are the new risks for him: monogamy, focus, trust. There are new existential concerns, too. The ambition here extends from his own plight to the straits of black people all over America. Nothing like a coherent thesis emerges, but he’s feeling his way toward if not a moral capitalism then the idea of who capitalism is for.Jay-Z began his career talking about all the money he had and how he made it. Now, he’s aged into a man with time to think about what the money means, what else it can do. He has become wealthy, and wealth is money with dimension, vision and heirs.Every time I’m reading a magazine and see one of those ads for a Patek Philippe watch, I take a second to wonder about the meaning of wealth. (This is a timepiece you take out a mortgage for.) The ads usually feature two or three generations of handsome white people, and the tag line is something obnoxiously poignant, like “You never actually own a Patek Philippe. You merely look after it for the next generation.”It’s a mission statement about legacy and affluence that’s rarely mentioned in rap, which is sometimes pathologically obsessed with the optics of spending. Saving never comes up. Neither does nonmusical posterity. To be fair, what’s sexy about those?Promiscuity is a rap subject. Paternity, not so much. Young men, understandably, aren’t too concerned with the future. New money tends to burn holes in pockets. Putting something away, having something to hand down, those tend to be old-person concerns. Certainly, other rappers have wills. But Jay-Z is actually ruminating about his. He’s wondering, too, whether your money’s doing all it can.On “4:44,” he gets churlish about that. In “The Story of O. J.,” he asks and answers, “You know what’s more important than spending money in a strip club? Credit.”A line later, he is asking, regrettably, if we know why the Jews own all the property in America. His phrasing perpetuates one stereotype to emphasize another about black people and capital — that, compared with white people, they have none. His pointing this out at 47 requires you to know what he was like when he was 27, when the gentleman at the club was him.Some of the risk of being an old rapper is that the old posturing won’t do. You actually have to stand for something. Jay-Z also has to reckon with where he has stood — with the Obamas on one hand but also cavalierly against womankind on the other. What does he make of his track record, his history, say, with women, and what will his children make of that?Maybe this is why young rappers don’t rap old. The evolving nature of maturity can make you seem like a hypocrite.This idea of legacy becomes a halting socioeconomic lecture on “4:44.” He’s working hard for his estate so that death won’t leave a hole. It will leave a whole. This is an ultrapractical view of the end of life that testifies to the sort of bootstrap conservatism that argues that because one black person has overcome the systemic and self-inflicted roadblocks to success, anyone can. These are his rags-to-riches racial politics. He’s made his black life matter, so should you.As popular culture archetypes, these used to be scary black men. But every once in a while, they’re granted a humanity that, with old-school rappers, is harder to come by. It’s not an art form that forgives weakness, concession or blame. It runs on burnishing and destroying egos. It thrives on the performance of flawless maximal authenticity and lyrical supremacy. Jay-Z doesn’t relinquish his ego on “4:44.” But on “Kill Jay-Z,” the rueful opening song, he contemplates the downsides of having such a strong one: “Die Jay-Z, this ain’t back in the days/You don’t need an alibi, Jay-Z/Cry Jay-Z, we know the pain is real/But you can’t heal what you never reveal.”This is Jay-Z driving half the night, to some place we’ve never seen him go, perhaps to some place he’s never even been. But part of maturity — whether or not you’re a rapper — is being human enough to accept that the first step is getting in the car.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe devastating recession that began at the end of 2007 and officially ended in June 2009 was the most severe downturn since World War II.The fact that people living outside big cities were battered so acutely by the recession goes a long way toward explaining President Trump’s victory in the last election.The greater Los Angeles region — like other densely populated metropolitan areas such as Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, and Dallas County in Texas — recovered strongly and swiftly and supported the Democratic Party in Nov. 2016, from candidates for local office to the president.The chart shows that since the bottom of the recession in the fourth quarter of 2009, metropolitan areas have fully bounced back and are now significantly above their pre-recession employment levels. In contrast, employment in non-metro areas remains well below its pre-recession level.From another vantage point, Trump did best in regions where economic growth was the worst — where jobs are disappearing and where middle-aged white men and women are dying at younger ages.In the period from 1992 to 1996, communities of 100,000 or less were engines of growth, producing 27 percent of the nation’s new jobs. The large metropolitan areas with populations of over one million produced 16 percent.By 2010 to 2014, the share of new jobs in the lowest population counties shrank to 9 percent, while the share produced in the largest counties grew from 16 to 41 percent.Put still another way, counties with populations below one million have seen their share of job creation drop from 84 percent of the national total in 1992-96 to 78 percent in 2002-06 — and then abruptly plummet to 59 percent in 2010-14.The pattern of net new business creation (new firms minus firms going out of business) reveals an even sharper reversal of fortune. In 1992-96, counties with fewer than 100,000 people produced 32 percent of new enterprises, while the biggest counties produced 13 percent.By 2010-14, very rural counties saw zero net growth in new firms, while the biggest counties boomed with 58 percent of new firms. All counties with populations under a million created 87 percent of the nation’s new businesses from 1992-1996, but the number was 42 percent in 2010-14.In other words, the centuries-long shift of economic activity from country and small town areas to populous urban regions has sharply accelerated over the past 10 years. The result is that “America faces a small-county crisis of dire proportions,” as Mark Muro, a senior fellow at Brookings put it, “and a period of opportunity in cities, the bigger the better.”There is a combination of forces driving these trends, according to Muro, most especially the growing importance of the high tech and digital industries. “Urbanization,” he wrote me,has become a major trend in the last decade or so, driven by the clustering of workers and firms in larger cities. The increased digitization of the economy has accelerated this dynamic, and ensured that changing skills demands have changed what places are best valued.At the same time, Muro noted by email:Rural America has been hammered by the end of the immediate post-crisis commodity boom and now there is precious little relief there: Agricultural prices are low, coal prices and automation are hammering coal country, natural gas prices are suffering from glut conditions, and meanwhile, no subdivision of the economy is suffering from more moribund employment growth.The rural crisis, according to Muro, “isn’t just economic but is now compounded by the rising mortality rates” described in detail by the economists Anne Case and Angus Deaton.a more complete picture of midlife mortality — by sex and education group, over the full age range of midlife, using shorter age windows, over time, by cause, and by small geographic areas.The Case-Deaton description of rising midlife mortality — especially an increase of “deaths of despair” from alcohol, opioids and suicide — is, in effect, a demographic portrait of many of Trump’s core supporters: whites with a high school degree or less living in rural to medium-sized towns and cities.Case and Deaton show that from 1999 to 2015 mortality rates among non-college whites rose in every age group, most especially among younger whites aged 25-34.The accompanying chart shows the rising “deaths of despair” rates for whites without college degrees, compared to the virtually unchanging rates for whites with degrees.Case and Deaton found that mortality rates for whites were stable or declining in all counties with populations of one million or more — the counties, in other words, that voted decisively for Clinton. Conversely, white mortality rates rose by roughly one percent a year in all counties of less than a million — the counties that voted for Trump.In an email, Bishop noted thatoutside of cities of a million or more — and really outside of the 56 central city counties of these large metros — Democrats lose.Bishop argued in his email to me that “the split isn’t just about politics. It’s about lifestyle and identity.” Increasingly, where you liveis tied into lifestyle and lifestyle aligns with politics. Politics, like lifestyle, is one way we construct our identities.The accelerated shift toward urban prosperity and exurban-to-rural stagnation reinforces polarizing disagreements between city and country on matters ranging from family values to education to child rearing practices to religious faith.Much attention has been paid to one daunting task facing Republicans: the need to prevent liberal values and ideas from seeping beyond large, urban counties into red counties and states.As the last election demonstrated, the compact geographical distribution of Democratic voters with liberal or progressive ideologies in states that were already blue allowed Trump to win in the Electoral College despite a sizable Democratic victory in the popular vote.Democrats, in turn, must figure out a way to extend their reach beyond the mega-population centers located mostly on the coasts, where cosmopolitan, globalist and post-materialist values dominate.Trump supporters’ politics may be filtered through the perverse lenses of racial anxiety and cultural reaction. But they are not wrong to look upon cities as distant and alien metropolises that have benefited at rural America’s expense.“So what’s the fix?” Spross asks.Return to the old ways of robust public investment, antitrust enforcement, and tax and regulatory policy to force money back down the income ladder. Stop treating deficit reduction as a goal in itself; rather whatever deficit level maintains full employment is the right one.The technological revolution poses a major problem for Democrats seeking ways to make economic outcomes more equitable by geography and class.McAfee noted that, given current trends,We’ll continue to see the middle class hollowed out and will see growth at the low and high ends. Really good executives, entrepreneurs, investors, and novelists — they will all reap rewards. Yo-Yo Ma won’t be replaced by a robot anytime soon, but financially, I wouldn’t want to be the world’s 100th-best cellist.Brynjolfsson argued, however, that the economic consequences of technological advance can be shaped by policy:Our one confident prediction is that digital technologies will bring the world into an era of more wealth and abundance and less drudgery and toil. But there’s no guarantee that everyone will share in the bounty, and that leaves many people justifiably apprehensive. The outcome — shared prosperity or increasing inequality — will be determined not by technologies but by the choices we make as individuals, organizations, and societies. If we fumble that future — if we build economies and societies that exclude many people from the cycle of prosperity — shame on us. Technological progress is an extraordinarily powerful force, but it’s not destiny. It won’t lift us into utopia or carry us into an unwanted future. The power to do that rests with us human beings. Technologies are merely our tools.For the moment, the Democratic Party is forced to stand by and watch the Trump spectacle, unable to enact policies to address the issues Spross, Brynjolfsson, and McAfee raise. Would better candidates help to enlarge the electorate to appeal to voters whose primary concerns are economic?All three have been elected and re-elected in competitive states where to survive politically they have had to balance urban and non-metro bread-and-butter interests.Shifting the focus of attention onto politicians like these would be a modest first step, but for a party struggling to regain its foothold, a modest first step would be a major achievement. The question going forward is whether Democrats can compete more effectively and more efficiently for the votes of those who have been left behind. They should set themselves this challenge.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEach in its own way, the Trump administration, the Republican Senate and the Republican House face ideological conflicts between fiscal conservatism, white identity politics and right-wing populism.Their interests converge in a shared antipathy to immigration and to programs seen as disproportionately benefiting racial and ethnic minorities. It’s when their interests diverge that battles erupt.The number of whites dependent on safety net programs is far larger than the number of African Americans, at 2.8 million, or Hispanics, at 2.4 million.The second case in point: Trump’s support of the legislation endorsed by Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House, to repeal and replace Obamacare.The voters hit the hardest — eligible for at least $5,000 less in tax credits under the Republican plan — supported Mr. Trump by a margin of 59 percent to 36 percent.At the Boys and Girls Club in this rural city in southern Oklahoma, the director is unsure how he will stay open if President Trump’s proposed budget goes through, eliminating money for several staff positions.Similar conversations are happening at the Oklahoma Shakespearean Festival’s after-school arts program, which relies on National Endowment for the Arts grants that Trump wants to eliminate. And at the county senior center, which already lost its state funding and could lose all or most of its federal funding, too. And at the Farm Service Center, which supports 1,200 local producers and is staffed with employees whose positions were targeted in the budget.The predicament facing white conservatives is that after the enactment of civil rights laws, they have found it difficult, if not impossible, to structure programs to benefit the white working class and poor without also benefiting disadvantaged African-Americans and Hispanics.Until now, the Tea Party-era Republican response has been to press for across the board cuts in safety net programs.“Rather than instituting new programs or terminating old ones, this strategy involved paring at the margins. Rules for access, eligibility and benefits were tightened up and ‘adjusted,’ ” they write, often through bureaucratic decisions kept “out of the political limelight.”As a rule, policies like these sell.ended the country’s only cash entitlement program for poor families with children, replacing it with a fixed-budget, state-administered program that offers lifetime-limited cash assistance to some but not all needy families and requires recipients to participate in work activity as a condition of receipt.That law is a case study in the effort to take benefits away from the supposedly undeserving poor. With the passage of his Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, Clinton became the first two-term elected Democrat to serve in the White House since Franklin Roosevelt.Fiscal conservatism can use policy design to force retrenchment that favors white voters over minority voters. Changes like these are frequently masked in bureaucratic language.In the realm of social spending, Trump has positioned himself on the side of fiscal conservatives. On infrastructure, however, he and Bannon, who just lost his seat on the National Security Council, are on a different track. They are pledged to an immense public works agenda generating jobs that would be appealing and available to white and nonwhite working class voters — hard-core budget hawks be damned.The voters spoke with a thunderclap. Trump squashed his 16 GOP rivals — a group that was touted as the most talented field of contenders in modern history — as if they were bugs crashing into his windshield. Republican voters opted for his new breed of economic populism.Moore continued:A realignment occurred while all the high-falutin’ intellectuals and political consultants were napping.Just as Trump in his business and personal life has demonstrated a dogged willingness to bet the house — without inhibition and with limited forethought — he is now embarking on one last enormous and divisive wager. In this case, however, the house he is betting is not just his. It belongs to all of us.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe Food IssueBy Jessica B. HarrisIn 1908, Pablo Picasso and his close friend Guillaume Apollinaire, a poet and an art critic, decided to host a lavish dinner party for Henri Rousseau, who was, at the time, a widely denigrated painter. Picasso had recently purchased a Rousseau painting from a secondhand shop in Montmartre, where the owner suggested that the portrait of a large woman was so bad it should be painted over. But Picasso, who bought it for 5 francs, liked it in a twisted way: It was so bad that it was good. As a joke, he and Apollinaire planned an over-the-top dinner to celebrate the douanier, or customs officer, a nickname for Rousseau, who had spent much of his life as a public servant. The two sent invitations to a constellation of notable people — Georges Braque, Juan Gris, Max Jacob, Marie Laurencin, Gertrude and Leo Stein, Alice B. Toklas — summoning them to Picasso’s studio apartment in the Bateau Lavoir, a decrepit green building that housed artists.Before he received acclaim for his post-Impressionist jungle scenes, Rousseau, then 64, was known as a shy bureaucrat who had retired from his job as a toll taker to devote himself to painting full time. A familiar figure in the cafes and artists’ haunts of the Butte Montmartre, he had paintings exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants, an annual show put on by a famous painters’ association, but his work was never prominently displayed. His naïve artistic style was more a source of ridicule than adulation from critics; some of his paintings had even been slashed with penknives. He supplemented his pension by playing violin on the street.There are multiple versions of what happened that night, and the story’s embellishments have only grown in the years since. Some say that Picasso gave the caterer the wrong day, so Fernande Olivier, Picasso’s mistress and model, improvised a riz à la Valenciennes, a rice dish made with chicken and seafood. Others suggest that the meal was just an excuse for Olivier to try a paella recipe that she picked up during a recent trip to Spain. Gertrude Stein was rumored to have wandered the local shops looking for last-minute cheeses and sardines. All agreed that the meal was delicious. The guest of honor arrived that night with his violin in one hand and his cane in the other and was soon feted with songs and a poetic toast loudly declaimed by Apollinaire, with Braque accompanying the speech on his accordion: “These wines that in your honor Picasso pours,/Let’s drink them then, since it’s the hour for drinking,/Crying in unison: ‘Long live! Long live Rousseau!’ ” Rousseau even obliged the crowd with some melodies.By midnight, the party had grown rowdier. As the original seated dinner ended, people in cafes and bars of the Butte heard rumors of the party and decided to join. Frédéric, the owner of the Lapin Agile, a nearby cafe, appeared with his flatulent pet donkey. Laurencin did a risqué dance for the crowd and then fell, blind drunk, onto the pastries that were supposed to be served for dessert. There may have been a brawl between the poets André Salmon and Maurice Cremnitz, though they later claimed to have faked it. At one point, Rousseau, delighted with the adulation, is said to have gravely announced to Picasso: “You and I are the greatest painters: I in the modern genre, you in the Egyptian.” He left with the Steins in the wee hours of the morning. The remaining guests slept on the floor.Despite beginning as a joke, the dinner is often credited with legitimizing Rousseau in the art world. Picasso kept “Portrait of a Woman,” even after Rousseau’s death in 1910, once calling it “one of the most truthful of all the French psychological portraits.” The painting is now in his collection in the Musée Picasso in Paris.By Bee WilsonLike any good soup, a bowl of Louisiana gumbo can uplift you even when there is nothing to feel uplifted about. On Sept. 17, 1960, a group of students in New Orleans, three black and one white, sat down at McCrory’s whites-only lunch counter and refused to leave until they were served. The students were convicted of criminal mischief, though that would be overturned by the Supreme Court in Lombard v. Louisiana (1963), a key moment in the fight against segregation. But before this historic meal came another: The sit-in was organized few days earlier over spicy gumbo at Dooky Chase’s Restaurant.Gumbo makes people braver; it satisfies the soul and gets you talking, says Leah Chase, the legendary African-American chef of Creole cuisine, who is still cooking at 94. “Honey, this is where they planned the thing,” she says over the phone from New Orleans, her voice warm and musical. She remembers the young activists who belonged to CORE — the Congress of Racial Equality — eating a series of lunches and dinners that September in her restaurant’s upstairs room.The leader was Rudy Lombard, 21, a fiery orator. Also there were Cecil Carter Jr., another black student; Lanny Goldfinch, a white student; and Oretha Castle, a courageous black human rights campaigner whose mother, Vergie, was the bartender at Dooky Chase. It was illegal at that time in the South for blacks and whites to eat in the same restaurant, but this danger didn’t deter the CORE students, who often spoke of sacrificing their lives for the cause. They shared seafood gumbo thickened with filé powder (ground dried sassafras leaves), fried chicken and Lombard’s favorite Italian salad of salami, capers and olives, with Lolis Edward Elie, a local lawyer. Over the food there were intense discussions about what they could and couldn’t do to advance their cause within the law. The activists toasted their plans with glasses of Barq’s root beer. According to Chase, “When they were working, they didn’t drink so much as a bottle of beer.”In 1960, Dooky Chase was one of the very few dining places in New Orleans where black people could eat with heavy cutlery on pressed linen tablecloths. Growing up, Lombard once told a radio interviewer, he dreamed of eating somewhere like that. His mother worked as a cook for a rich family, and she worked across the street from a fancy restaurant called Pascal’s Manale. As a boy, Rudy longed to eat there. Chase gave him and the other CORE members a taste of that restaurant ease. He once said he saw the restaurant as “an incubator of black people’s aspirations.”Another activist who regularly ate there was Raphael Cassimere Jr., an emeritus history professor at the University of New Orleans. Cassimere remembers meetings of the N.A.A.C.P., whose office was a few blocks away, where people got “all steamed up,” but as soon as everyone was sitting down with Chase’s gumbo, “you’d be laughing again.” This gumbo was like the food of Louisiana grandmothers, Cassimere recalls, except that “you could get it 24 hours. And it was cheap.” Sometimes, in an extra-generous mood, Chase didn’t charge at all. She fed many of the Freedom Riders, who took a series of perilous bus trips through the South in 1961, trying to use whites-only restrooms and restaurants along the way.Sometimes the activists arrived at the restaurant dirty, right out of jail. “Poor darlings,” she says. “I used to feel so sorry for them.” Chase sent them around the corner to Vergie’s home to take a bath. And then she fed them.By Brenda WineappleIn 1884, James Gillespie Blaine, a Republican senator from Maine, ate a dinner that helped him lose the presidency. Blaine is now nearly forgotten, but during the Gilded Age he was a star candidate for the White House from 1876 to 1892, even when he didn’t want the job — and despite the pungent whiff of financial scandal always trailing him. “Blaine, Blaine, the continental liar from the State of Maine,” opponents taunted him, while die-hard “Blainiacs” called him a gallant “plumed knight.”Whatever Blaine was, he had also been a speaker of the House, a secretary of state and a man who liked to eat. It was, after all, the period of the so-called Great Barbecue, when politicians and financiers and railroad buccaneers all splurged together, whether on the public trust or on oysters and Champagne. On Oct. 29, just one week before Election Day, when Blaine was poised to beat his Democratic opponent, Grover Cleveland, he accepted an invitation to a dinner in his honor at Delmonico’s Restaurant in New York City. Since 1837, the wealthy and the notable had eaten there: Abraham Lincoln, Napoleon III, Jenny Lind and even Charles Dickens, who despised American cuisine. Delmonico’s seemed to rebut single-handedly the notion that American cooking, as one historian put it, insulted every sense but hearing.The Delmonico family knew all about farm-to-table; they had bought over 200 acres in Brooklyn to grow fresh fruits and vegetables. (Regardless, the restaurant’s bill of fare was resoundingly French. Even the menu was written in it.) The name “Delmonico” came to symbolize luxury — and excess. At one particularly extravagant banquet, each woman discovered a gold bracelet folded in her napkin. And at the James Blaine dinner, while a full orchestra played patriotic tunes, the 200 guests were seated at huge tables covered with white cloths, tropical ferns and confections representing their occupations. On Blaine’s table was a model White House, apparently made of sugar.Blaine never made it to the real White House. The day after his banquet, The Associated Press printed the elaborate menu, along with the guest list, which included the nation’s richest men, millionaires like Andrew Carnegie, John Jacob Astor and Jay Gould, who could afford a nine-course meal and, by implication, a nine-course president. They supped on “consommé à la Victoria” or “crème de volaille à la Berchoux” before choosing “kingfish à la Richelieu” or fried smelts for their fish course. For the course known as the “relevés,” they tucked into “selle de chevreuil à la Tyrolienne” (roast saddle of young venison surrounded by tartlets of sour-apple marmalade covered in puff pastry) or “filet de boeuf à la Clarendon.” Entrees followed: “ailes de volaille à la Lucullus” (chicken breast garnished with truffles and balls of foie gras), “ris de veau au chancelier” (sweetbreads in sauce) or “terrapène à la Maryland” (turtle stew). Not to be forgotten were side dishes like pommes à l’Anglaise (English boiled potatoes) and the roast course of canvasback duck. Desserts included prunelle jelly and chestnut soufflé, all attended by the appropriate wine. After dinner, the men were seen staggering to their carriages.News of the dinner spread when another millionaire, Joseph Pulitzer, a Democrat, ran a front-page cartoon in his paper, The New York World. Titled “The Royal Feast of Belshazzar Blaine and the Money Kings,” it depicted a gaggle of portly plutocrats dining on “lobby pudding” and “patronage cake,” while a working family, at the foot of the table, held out a hand for scraps. In the background was a biblical inscription that referred to the handwriting on the wall. Cleveland supporters plastered posters of the cartoon on walls all over the state.James Blaine lost New York by about only 1,000 votes, but that meant he failed to receive the crucial electoral votes he needed for the White House. And he never got any nearer to it — not as president anyway. But there are second acts in American life: After a long and conspicuous trip to Scotland with Andrew Carnegie, Blaine decided to throw his support in 1888 to Benjamin Harrison, who, once elected, made Blaine secretary of state again. By the next election, in 1892, Blaine’s appetite for presidential politics had dwindled, his gout had increased, and he quietly left the banquet.Illustrations by Giacomo GambineriAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementLate in the 19th century, America was besieged by grave problems: rising economic inequality, violent labor struggles, deep conflicts over immigration and race. But the nation’s leaders seemed incapable of addressing any of these things; they frittered away their hours in disputes over tariffs and trade, and when election time came, they lined up in their respective parties, each one hoping for the chance to distribute the federal spoils to itself. Presidential elections were achingly close: In 1888, Grover Cleveland won the popular vote but lost to Benjamin Harrison in the Electoral College, fueling a sense that the political process no longer worked properly.Some Americans demanded electoral reform; we can thank them, with mixed feelings, for inventing the presidential primary. Others turned to “populism,” a Western and Southern revolt against the East Coast elite. Still others embraced the idea that some “independent,” objective authority, standing outside partisan politics, might swoop into Washington and set things right.Today many Americans are attaching similar hopes to the newly appointed special counsel Robert Mueller, hailed as just the sort of “independent” figure to deliver the truth about Russia’s intervention in the 2016 election. “I believe Mueller will be independent, he will be thorough and he will be fair,” said Representative Elijah Cummings, the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Oversight Committee. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan professed a similar need “to ensure thorough and independent investigations are allowed to follow the facts wherever they may lead.”Given the parade of scandals and lies emanating from the Trump White House, the prospect of finding one independent soul among our thousands of partisan warriors holds an obvious political appeal. But what does it mean to be truly “independent” in the hyperpartisan 21st century, when nearly everything in American life seems to end up as a mark on the political scorecard — pro or con, win or loss, Republican or Democrat? Is it still possible to survive as an independent operator within the atmosphere of personal vendetta and political retribution that is Trump’s Washington? Or will the Russia investigation turn out to be a showdown not only between the president and his critics but also between partisanship and the very idea of political independence?AdvertisementAdvertisementThis ideal of the selfless federal servant was always partly a noble fiction; as “Hamilton” fans know, the founding era’s hostilities were vicious enough that a vice president killed a former Treasury secretary. The aspiration to meet that ideal nonetheless held sway well into the 1820s, creating what became known as the “Era of Good Feelings.” It was as debates over slavery and territorial expansion heated up that party warfare returned. The Civil War itself erupted in the aftermath of a partisan event: the election of the country’s first Republican president.Two decades later, the assassination of President James Garfield brought a new round of national soul-searching. The deranged assassin, Charles Guiteau, said he committed the deed in order to unify the Republican Party and because he felt he had deserved a patronage appointment as a European ambassador. A couple years later, in 1883, Congress passed the Pendleton Act, the nation’s first comprehensive Civil Service law, designed partly to calm the roiling political waters. Under these new rules, many federal jobs would be parceled out according to “merit” rather than party patronage, ensuring the independence and integrity of at least some of the people serving in government.As the 20th century dawned, and Americans embraced the promise of apolitical government expertise, administrative agencies and bureaus proliferated — among them the tiny Bureau of Investigation. Founded in 1908, the bureau started out plagued by the very problems Civil Service law was designed to eliminate: incompetence, corruption and crony appointments. Then, in 1924, a bustling young director named J. Edgar Hoover set about whipping the bureau into shape. Hoover is often seen today as a tyrant and a violator of civil liberties, but when he came to office, he was considered a reformer and an enemy of “politics,” a man who could be relied upon to tell the truth when everyone else seemed to be lying for partisan ends.This is one example of how bureaucratic independence can go awry. In the mid-1970s, alarmed by abuses of power during Hoover’s nearly 48-year directorship, Congress decided that future F.B.I. directors should be subject to a 10-year limit. The policy effectively split the difference between autonomy and accountability: The president still had the right to fire an F.B.I. director, but the law established a standard period of service longer than any president’s two terms. One of several things Trump’s showdown with Comey calls into question is whether this arrangement is still enough to ensure a reasonable level of F.B.I. independence — especially under a president disinclined to observe political norms.Beverly Gage is a professor of American political history at Yale. She is the author of “The Day Wall Street Exploded: A Story of America in Its First Age of Terror” and is currently writing a biography of the former F.B.I. director J. Edgar Hoover.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byHow prepared is our president for the next great foreign, economic or terrorist crisis?After a little more than two months in office, President Trump has raised doubts about his ability to deal with what the former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld famously described as the “known unknowns” and the “unknown unknowns.”How dangerous is the situation that the United States faces?I asked a range of foreign policy analysts and other scholars to assess the ability of President Trump and his administration to effectively manage the developments listed above.Steve Nadler of the University of Wisconsin had more to say:Donald Trump and the people with whom he has filled his cabinet are perfectly unqualified and unprepared to handle any and all of those developments and trends. The lack of experience and understanding of the world, especially of our historical and contemporary relationship with our European allies and rivals is frightening, especially in today’s world, where the stakes and the dangers are so much greater than ever.Bacevich makes an intriguing argument to downplay the danger of a Trump presidency:Because Trump is manifestly unprincipled, there are very few things he actually believes in.Bacevich citesthe growing list of things he seemed certain to do where that certainty has now largely disappeared: “tearing up” the Iran nuclear deal; jettisoning NATO; abandoning the “One China” policy; moving the US embassy to Jerusalem; reinstituting torture.Gambling the future of the country on the possibility that Trump will turn out to be a weak reed is, however, a high-risk proposition.“If Washington walks away from the rules-based order it has defended for the last seventy years,” Kupchan explained,its democratic allies will be ill-placed to defend it on their own. Whether by design or by default, Trump may well preside over the closing of the era that began when the bombing of Pearl Harbor awakened the United States to the responsibilities and privileges of international leadership.Of the multiple international tensions that could turn into crises at any time, North Korea could lead the way.Between an impulsive president who seems uninterested in details, an advisory system that does not (yet, at least) produce good advice, a general lack of respect for expertise, and a distrust of intelligence, a crisis with North Korea could go very poorly.The current situation is not stable, Dalton said,and probably not sustainable. I wish I had greater confidence that Trump could distinguish between the imperatives and distractions, discern the worst outcomes and least worst outcomes, weigh up the options, and come up with a reasoned approach.Trump himself is abysmally ignorant about both international and domestic affairs, and he is nearly always guided by a single principle: his own self-interest.Normally, there is quite a lot of expertise available in institutions such as the State Department to guide administrations during crises, but Trump seems to be doing his best to decimate the institution.Before too long, sovereignty-obsessed powers like Russia and China halted its implementation. Calamitous mistakes for which Western policy makers were responsible – namely, the protracted war in Iraq and the global economic crisis – cemented the reversal of Liberal Order 2.0.In this context, Trump arrives ill equipped to manage a larger, more dangerous process that Leonard argues has the potential to become “a new kind of globalization that combines the technologies of the future with the enmities of the past.”In this emerging system, according to Leonard,modern and pre-modern forms will prevail: support for government repression, like Russia has provided in Syria, or ethno-religious proxy wars, like those that Saudi Arabia and Iran have waged across the Middle East. The internet, migration, trade, and the enforcement of international law will be turned into weapons in new conflicts, rather than governed effectively by global rules. International conflict will be driven primarily by a domestic politics increasingly defined by status anxiety, distrust of institutions, and narrow-minded nationalism.So how prepared is our president for what’s next? Given the magnitude of the problems that lie ahead and the embedded contradictions that make them difficult to solve, we face precisely the kind of world President Trump is least equipped for, mentally and morally.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorThe simmering talk of impeachment swirling around President Trump largely concerns whether he committed a crime by asking James Comey, when he was still the director of the F.B.I., to end an investigation of Michael T. Flynn, the onetime national security adviser. From the perspective of criminal law, the resulting questions, which pertain mainly to the president’s intent in making the request, are inescapable. From the perspective of the decidedly political act of impeachment, they are irrelevant. The purpose of impeachment is not punitive. It is prophylactic.Criminal law looks backward toward offenses committed. The object of impeachment is not to exact vengeance. It is to protect the public against future acts of recklessness or abuse. Consequently, the issue in deciding whether Mr. Trump is liable to impeachment is less what happened in the Oval Office between him and Mr. Comey than what those events say about what will happen in similar situations in the future. That is not a case for casual impeachment. On the contrary, since it is harder to predict future acts than to prove what has already occurred, such a standard may be harder to meet.Our tendency to read the impeachment power in an overly legalistic way, which is ratified by 230 years of excessive timidity about its use, obscures the political rather than juridical nature of the device. The Constitution applies presidential impeachment to “Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.” The famous latter phrase does not refer to offenses like burglary on the one hand or loitering on the other. If it did, impeachment would be available for casual transgressions, which no framer of the Constitution intended.The phrase dates in American constitutionalism to the founder George Mason’s proposal to make the president liable to impeachment not just for treason and bribery — the original formulation at the Constitutional Convention — but also for what he called “maladministration.” His fellow framer James Madison objected to the vagueness of the term, so Mason substituted “high Crimes and Misdemeanors.” That phrase, in turn, is traceable to the British legal commentator William Blackstone, a contemporary who was revered in colonial America, who applied it to the “mal-administration of high officers,” among other things.The tendency to read “high Crimes and Misdemeanors” too literally is one reason the 25th amendment, which treats presidential incapacity as though it requires a special constitutional mechanism when in fact one was already in place, became necessary. It is also why, in a development that surely would have surprised Hamilton and Madison alike, the republic has managed 23 decades without a successful impeachment and conviction, the resignation of President Richard Nixon notwithstanding.The political nature of the impeachment authority does not mean it is merely a contest over power. Still less is it supposed to rehash electoral disputes. Instead, the point is that because its purpose is to “defend the community” rather than to punish an individual, the standards of a criminal trial do not apply. The Constitution’s specification that prosecuting an individual for an act for which he or she was impeached does not constitute double jeopardy reinforces this understanding.The prophylactic rather than punitive character of the impeachment power still, of course, requires an offense. But the offense indicates a pattern on the basis of which future behavior can be predicted. The idea is not to humiliate the president or to cause him to suffer by the loss of his office. It is to protect the public against his negligence or abuse.In this sense, it does not matter whether Mr. Trump explicitly intended to obstruct justice when he reportedly attempted to cajole Mr. Comey. The determination Congress must make is what its level of confidence is that Mr. Trump can be trusted not to abuse the levers of power in similar ways if he continues to hold them. On another front, there is little question that he committed no crime when he leaked classified information to the Russian ambassador. But that, too, is not the question impeachment poses. The issue is whether Madison’s community and Hamilton’s society need to be defended against similar behavior in the future.There are reasonable arguments to be made that despite all the controversies, the president can demonstrate the discipline his office requires. Others may assert that the acts of which he is accused did not occur, did not occur the way they were reported, or did not constitute high crimes or misdemeanors if they did occur.The evidence should be carefully gathered, a process in which Robert S. Mueller III, acting as special counsel, will help considerably. But Mr. Mueller is no substitute for Congress’s independent responsibilities of investigation and sober evaluation. The question is by what standards they should conduct this work, and that question provides an opportunity to correct the mistaken assumption according to which presidents can forfeit the public trust only by committing what the law recognizes as a crime. That is a poor bar for a mature republic to set. It is not the one a newborn republic established.And that is why the idea that the conversation about impeachment is simply a political persecution of a man who is technically innocent of a literal crime not only jumps the investigatory gun. It misses the constitutional point.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:I beg to differ with Susan Chira, who posits the notion that the furor over Kellyanne Conway’s couch-lounging posture in the Oval Office was mostly sexist in origin. If Sean Spicer were sprawled on that sofa with his feet propped up on a coffee table, the outcry would be the same.Where is the respect for the most hallowed office in the White House? Where is the respect for the presidents of historically black colleges who were gathered in that room, and the presidency itself?Furthermore, Ms. Conway may well be the victim of sexist comments in other regards, but carping about the clothing of politicians has been a national sport since the days of George Washington, well before there were women in office.Has Ms. Chira missed the double entendres fired at President Trump and his ties or those aimed at Sean Spicer’s tailor?To the Editor:Hillary Clinton and Kellyanne Conway may both be “ambitious, assertive women,” but the similarities end there.Mrs. Clinton has devoted her entire life to public service — as first lady, senator and secretary of state, fighting relentlessly for women’s rights and human rights worldwide. No small accomplishments, considering that she entered the work force in the 1970s, a time when women were often expected to stay home, take care of the kids and bake chocolate chip cookies.Ms. Conway, however hardworking she has proved to be in the past year, has devoted herself to one task — defending Donald Trump. The attacks against her may be offensively sexist, but they are not rooted in the “persistent anger toward women who step outside conventional roles.”Her role is as conventional as could be — that of the loyal assistant protecting her often embarrassing and profligate boss.CATHY BERNARD, NEW YORKTo the Editor:For years, I have decried the irrelevant remarks about appearance that turned up in the media and in casual conversation about powerful women such as Hillary Clinton.After reading your article focusing on this issue with regard to Kellyanne Conway, I realized that despite my efforts to assess our female leaders based on the performance of their duties, I was guilty of maligning Ms. Conway for her looks.Many thanks to Susan Chira for making me aware that I was as guilty as the meanspirited critics who undermined Mrs. Clinton with their comments about her pantsuits.To the Editor:I’m no fan of Kellyanne Conway’s politics, but in the aftermath of the hoopla surrounding the photo of her kneeling on the Oval Office couch, I have to wonder: Would Steve Bannon, also an adviser to the president, have been asked to step back and take a snapshot of a roomful of distinguished men?To the Editor:The White House is not Kellyanne Conway’s home. It is the People’s House, and she is a guest/employee in it. She should understand that it was inappropriate for any adult, male or female, to strike such an informal pose at an Oval Office reception.GAIL MINTHORN, WILTON, CONN.To the Editor:I agree with Susan Chira in her derision of over-the-top misogynistic jabs aimed at powerful women in politics that appear in tweets, Facebook and on comedy programs such as “Saturday Night Live.” However, it may be worth noting that the three tweets used as examples in the article were written by women.The term “misogynist” usually connotes a male bias against women. So when the mocking or hateful missiles are thrown by women against women, do we call this misogyny? No, perhaps not. Perhaps it just comes with the territory.After all, we have always heard or seen comical caricatures of male politicians — jokes about John Boehner’s tan; or cartoons of Barack Obama accentuating his ears; or pratfalls performed as imitations of Gerald Ford. Perhaps we are merely experiencing the rise of women to powerful positions that put them in the limelight. Bravo for them!To the Editor:I’m sorry that our current president expects female White House employees to “dress like women” — clones of news anchors in their constraining sleeveless shift dresses. I’m sorry that Kellyanne Conway had to contort her body while wearing these binding clothes in order to take photos. I’m sorry that I will not accept an accusation of being sexist for being put off when any ill-mannered person, male or female, puts his or her dirty shoes on the president’s couch.It’s 2017, female White House staffers. If you need to do acrobatics to do your job, be a little bold, and consider wearing trousers to work. I promise it won’t turn you into a Democrat. You just might be able to move and even breathe a bit more comfortably. A little more blood flowing to brains in the White House will always be a fashionable choice.To the Editor:Susan Chira’s article tries the “evenhanded” approach that The New York Times and other media adopted during the 2016 campaign. Yes, Kellyanne Conway has drawn some misogynistic attacks; she has also invited such attacks through behavior (and, yes, appearance) that would be considered flatly unacceptable from a man in her position. Your story also does a disservice to the many other women who have represented administrations — and for that matter covered news — in equally charged situations.The criticism of Kellyanne Conway is all about Ms. Conway’s conduct and demeanor. To call her out using misogynistic terms is impolite, impolitic and wrong, but to say that she lies, disrespects the United States and needs to look in the mirror before looking into the camera are all within bounds.So, other than an overdose of political correctness, what justified putting this article on your front page?To the Editor:ANDREA B. HALE, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Why is it that when there is constructive criticism against a woman it is called sexist, or even worse, misogynist. Men get criticized all the time — by both men and women. If women are going to be successful in these high political jobs, they’ll have to take the “constructive” criticism.There are women in public life who are not criticized, and it is because they are good at their jobs, but when someone criticizes a Sarah Palin, or a Kellyanne Conway, it is usually justified and it shouldn’t be misconstrued as sexist, or misogynist. Criticism can be constructive — and that’s not an alternative fact.DOUGLAS CORNISH, OTTAWAAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSRecruits at Parris Island have been subjected to severe hazing, far beyond that experienced in other U.S. military boot camps. Is this really the only way to create a warrior?Silence.‘‘Raheel?’’ she said. The phone was dead. The call lasted less than five seconds. In her darkened living room in Taylor, Mich., a suburb of Detroit, Ghazala worried. The previous morning, Raheel, a 20-year-old Marine Corps recruit, left for boot camp on Parris Island, S.C. He had promised to call his parents when he arrived, and Ghazala and her husband, Masood, had been waiting by the phone. But the call, when it came, was strange, with an almost deafening noise in the background. Ghazala couldn’t be sure it was even him. In the morning, she phoned Raheel’s recruiter. ‘‘No one knows my son’s voice better than me,’’ she said. ‘‘That didn’t sound like my son.’’The Siddiquis, who emigrated from Pakistan in the 1990s, hadn’t wanted their precious oldest child, and only boy, to join the Marines. Slender and unathletic, Raheel had always seemed most content designing video games on his computer. He graduated ninth in the class of 2014 from Taylor’s Harry S. Truman High School, a valedictorian with his pick of colleges, including a full academic scholarship to Michigan State. After months of deliberation, he decided on the University of Michigan’s Dearborn campus, where he enrolled in September 2014, lured by its new program in robotics engineering. But the following July, after his freshman year, Raheel drastically changed course, announcing to his family that he had decided to leave college and enlist in the Marines.AdvertisementGhazala didn’t understand. ‘‘You’re smart, you’re intelligent — why?’’ she pleaded with him. Raheel tried to placate her. It was a ‘‘golden opportunity,’’ he told his parents. ‘‘After three years in the Marine Corps, I can do anything.’’That call was the last time she heard her son’s voice.Raheel was raised in public housing and spent his high school years intent on escaping his shabby hometown. ‘‘He always wanted challenges,’’ says Jerry Abraham, a former guidance counselor at Truman High whom Raheel frequently enlisted to help him find the hardest classes. In pursuit of a perfect G.P.A., Raheel had virtually no social life, though he had a naïve optimism unusual for a teenager. ‘‘He saw the world as nothing but a wonderful place,’’ says Karey Lee, Raheel’s supervisor at a nearby Home Depot, where he worked part time on the customer-service desk. ‘‘I don’t think he knew that hatefulness existed, to be honest.’’AdvertisementMilitary recruiters were fixtures at Truman High. The Marines, the most selective of the armed services, came to campus twice a week. ‘‘They targeted the kids that were more college-oriented and capable of being successful,’’ says Abraham, whose office was in the same building as the school’s R.O.T.C. program. They were also quick to reject students who failed to meet their standards, which include scores in the top third on the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (Asvab) test and no history of serious drug use, crime or tattoos that the Marines consider ‘‘undesirable.’’ Like many of his classmates, Raheel took the Asvab and scored high. With his talents, drive and rigid focus, he would very likely have struck recruiters as the ‘‘golden goose,’’ as one former Marine put it.The University of Michigan-Dearborn was the most prestigious school to which Raheel applied, and in April 2014 he was accepted and given a $2,000 scholarship. It was not the full academic scholarship he was offered by Michigan State, but with the hefty financial aid he would receive, it was ‘‘technically a full free ride,’’ Raheel announced on Facebook. The assistance, however, came with strings: Should his grades dip below a C average, he wouldn’t receive any more money until they went back up.Raheel enrolled in Michigan’s honors program, a special track requiring students to maintain a 3.2 G.P.A. He assumed it would be easy. Lee, his boss at Home Depot, estimated that Raheel probably worked about 20 hours a week his freshman year, though it never occurred to her to ask why he needed to work so many hours if school was paid for. ‘‘He never talked about what he did with the money,’’ she says. ‘‘I assumed he was doing well at school because, I mean, he was a genius.’’After high school, Raheel had told his mother she should stop working odd jobs and let him contribute to the family’s income. Massood didn’t make much at an auto-parts factory, and Raheel was concerned about how the family would pay for his 16-year-old sister to attend college. ‘‘Let’s face it,’’ he confided to a friend, ‘‘she’s not going to get a full scholarship, and my parents can’t afford to send her, so I have to make sure she goes.’’It was a lot for an 18-year-old. His grades began to suffer. By December, Raheel was getting Cs. Worried that he might fail chemistry, he texted his friend Nathan Pykor, also a student at the Dearborn campus: ‘‘I just feel too STRESSED over all of my classes because I haven’t dedicated enough time.’’‘‘You’re fine,’’ Pykor, who had known Raheel since high school, replied. ‘‘You know that it’s nearly impossible to get a 4.0 in college.’’‘‘I’m not fine,’’ Raheel texted back.His solution, he told Pykor, was to withdraw from his classes and ‘‘start fresh’’ in the spring, which he did, finishing the semester with three As and a B. But as Pykor told me, withdrawing from his classes very likely meant Raheel would owe the University of Michigan the money it had given him to attend classes in the fall. It also could have jeopardized his aid package for the following year.AdvertisementOn June 16, 2015, Raheel posted on Facebook for the first time in a while. ‘‘I’m thinking about joining the military. Maybe the Marines.’’ Just three weeks later, on July 8, he signed his enlistment papers and entered the Marines’ Delayed Entry Program, which, lasting anywhere between a month and a year, is designed to stagger the number of recruits the corps can train at any one time. It’s also intended to indoctrinate ‘‘poolees,’’ as they are called, into the culture of the Marines. ‘‘The D.E.P. is all about selling the Kool-Aid,’’ says a lance corporal who also enlisted in the Marines in 2015, after his freshman year. (‘‘I decided I didn’t like college enough to justify all that debt,’’ he told me.) ‘‘You meet every Saturday, and they’ll tell you stories, do little workouts,’’ he says, ‘‘tell you some lies.’’ Like ‘‘ ‘Yeah, I’m always in my room playing Xbox,’ ‘There’s all this time to party’ ’’ — anything that will appeal to college kids.Raheel spent close to eight months in the D.E.P. under the tutelage of his recruiter, who the Siddiquis said told them that Raheel was his most motivated poolee. Ghazala marveled at the changes in her son, who now woke each day at 4 a.m. to spend hours at the gym. Any doubts his mother had about his education were assuaged by Raheel’s own assurances: He said he had been told that he could continue his education while serving, and that, having chosen a technical specialty, working on Marine aircraft, he might not even have to fight unless he wanted to. (In fact, Marines I spoke to said it was nearly impossible to pursue an education during their first enlistment; once deployed, every Marine has to be prepared to fight if suddenly under attack.) At Raheel’s urging, Ghazala visited the recruiting office in Taylor, where she says that recruiters assured her that Raheel’s safety wouldn’t be an issue.‘‘I feel like they’re really good at lying,’’ says the lance corporal, who was sold on the corps by recruiting videos that presented the Marines as ‘‘badasses’’ on humanitarian missions to save refugees or deliver food and water. Raheel told his parents that enlisting in the Marines would put him on the fast track to join the F.B.I., which, to their total surprise, had become his life’s dream. A few weeks before he left for boot camp, Raheel stopped by Truman to tell some of his old teachers about his plans. Abraham pressed him on his decision, but Raheel’s mind was made up.‘‘Be careful,’’ Raheel’s friend Hussein Chehab, who worked with him at Home Depot, says he told him before he left. ‘‘Just . . . watch yourself. You don’t know what kinds of people are down there. You don’t know how other people think.’’History, or what Marines call ‘‘knowledge,’’ lives on Parris Island. Everything about the place is an elegy to the corps, from the statue of Marines lifting the flag on Iwo Jima to the street names, each one its own small lesson: Boulevard de France, Cuba Street, Wake Boulevard, Saigon Drive. Inside the Recruit Chapel, a series of stained-glass windows depicts chapters of Marine heroism and sacrifice. In one, a platoon of Marines rests in the hand of God. In another, a ragtag band of soldiers and sailors stands before the gates of heaven guarded by stoic, crisply dressed Marines.The Marines are America’s smallest conventional military force, with just 184,000 active-duty troops. They are also the military’s most insular warriors — with the possible exception of Navy SEALs — whose tight bond, or ‘‘esprit de corps,’’ grows out of the codes, traditions and reverence for suffering that Marines believe set them apart from civilians and all other military branches.AdvertisementCentral to this identity is the uniquely miserable experience of boot camp, where since World War II, as the historian Aaron O’Connell writes in his 2012 book, ‘‘Underdogs: The Making of the Modern Marine Corps,’’ ‘‘Recruits [have] learned in ways they would not forget that what made Marines exceptional was their ability to endure more pain than members of their sister services.’’ ‘‘Making’’ Marines, as the corps calls recruit training, is a three-part process, with boot camp being the first and most grueling test. Its purpose, unlike Army boot camp, is not to train war-fighters; for Marines, that comes in the second and third phases of training. Boot camp is meant to create the ‘‘warrior spirit,’’ as the corps puts it, over three months of group indoctrination intended to strip recruits of individuality and, through repeated exposure to pain and physical challenge, condition them to accept and perform violence.Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In his 1984 memoir, ‘‘First to Fight,’’ the esteemed Marine lieutenant general Victor Krulak, known as Brute, spoke of the ‘‘almost mystical alchemy’’ that happens during boot camp, whose shared hardships he saw as ‘‘the genesis of the enduring sense of brotherhood that characterizes the corps.’’ But the lines between hard training and abuse can blur. Like every other branch of the military, the Marine Corps has official strictures against hazing, which it defines as any unauthorized verbal or physical conduct of a ‘‘cruel, abusive, humiliating, oppressive, demeaning or harmful’’ nature. The Marines have nonetheless investigated hundreds of hazing allegations in the past five years alone. (The particulars of the hazing incidents in this article were taken largely from redacted reports prepared by the Marines in the course of their investigations. Details like names and dialogue were provided by eyewitnesses and other recruits.) ‘‘There is a natural tension between an organization that trains people for lethality and the larger culture,’’ a Marine reserve officer told me. ‘‘Inside the culture, you’re supposed to be able to take a punch and give a punch and crush a skull. Outside, this is not something that’s valued.’’The bedrock of Marine tradition is a long-ago era when buff, male and mostly white combat Marines launched amphibious early-morning assaults on enemy beaches armed with M1 rifles and Ka-Bar knives. Today’s far less homogeneous troops roll into battle in armored Humvees or tanks, with sophisticated high-powered weaponry and thermal-imaging goggles. Many never leave their base at all, waging war remotely while operating a joystick or writing code. In many ways, the Marines have become indistinguishable from the Army.Adapting to these harsh truths hasn’t been easy for the corps, whose current and former officials, with some exceptions, were reluctant to speak openly about these challenges except on condition of anonymity. ‘‘The Marines have a purpose, and it’s a militant purpose,’’ one senior officer says. ‘‘We are an organization grounded on the physical, but wars are not as physical anymore. The character of war has evolved a lot from the early 20th century. The question is: Has our force evolved? I don’t think it has.’’Once inside the doors, the mystical journey from civilian to Marine known as the Transformation begins. It’s pandemonium. Drill instructors scream from every direction as the kids, scrambling to individual metal desks, are ordered to fill out administrative paperwork, signaling their completion by raising their right hand, with pen, above their heads. From there it’s on to the phone bank, where, with instructors bawling at them to finish, recruits are told to make three- or four-second calls home, reading as fast as they can from a five-line script taped to the phone box:The rest of the intake process, known as ‘‘receiving,’’ follows over the next few days: buzz cuts, boots, uniforms, shots. They are given physical-fitness tests, fed what most describe as truly awful food and ordered to perform seemingly meaningless tasks, like standing at attention while holding their heavy gear in front of them until their arms give out, or sitting cross-legged and motionless on the floor for hours. Some Marines I interviewed recalled being kept awake for nearly two days after arriving. ‘‘All you can think about is sleep,’’ one said. ‘‘Those are the main tools: fear and sleep deprivation.’’Drill instructors, or D.I.s, are revered on Parris Island, where they roam the base with a special aura. ‘‘Nobody will counter them,’’ one senior Marine official told me. ‘‘Without them, there is no Parris Island.’’ Some D.I.s are not much older than the recruits. Only a small fraction have been to war. Almost all adopt the mien of an infantry grunt, though in truth, most D.I.s, like most Marines, aren’t combat troops but rather part of the corps’s expanding cast of supporting players: mechanics, air traffic controllers, technicians, clerks. Some Marines I spoke with described boot camp as a performance: The lead actors are the D.I.s, men and women who for the first time in their professional lives are embodying the macho warrior archetype they were taught to venerate as recruits.AdvertisementTo qualify for D.I. training, a Marine must have finished at least one term of enlistment and be given a clean psychological bill of health as determined by what the Marine officials insist is rigorous testing aimed at weeding out those Marines suffering from PTSD. They must also complete an 11-week drill-instructor school, where, as one former officer puts it, they are taught to ‘‘mold these guys into killers.’’ D.I. school, by all accounts, is almost as intense as boot camp. This is by design; every moment of a drill instructor’s schedule is tightly scripted and charted on what the corps calls its ‘‘training matrix.’’ ‘‘The system is very unforgiving on the D.I.,’’ says Gary Lee, a retired Marine sergeant major who helped design the training program in 1995. ‘‘They never get a break from their responsibilities.’’ During a 12-week training cycle, D.I.s spend almost all their time on their feet. Their voices croak with exhaustion and strain. They barely sleep.The stress of the job, coupled with the near-unbridled power given to drill instructors, creates a dangerous alchemy. This has been particularly true on Parris Island, whose violent ‘‘shadow culture,’’ as it has been described to me, exceeds San Diego’s. Since 2014, there have been 24 official hazing investigations on Parris Island, half of them substantiated. There is a perspective on the base ‘‘that somehow you can make a better Marine by beating the shit out of him,’’ says the retired Marine general Charles Krulak, Brute Krulak’s son. ‘‘I have argued consistently that it’s not true — you do not make a better Marine by treating them that way; in fact, it’s totally against what we as a Marine Corps stand for. But it’s a mentality that has existed down there for so long.’’In 1995, Charles Krulak became the commandant of the Marine Corps and decided this culture had to change. Krulak and his team came up with what they called the transformation process, which overhauled boot camp to incorporate an agenda based on the Marines’ ‘‘core values’’ — honor, courage, commitment — into every aspect of basic training. The goal, Krulak says, was to create ‘‘a smarter, more selfless, more adept and more educated Marine.’’ It channeled the violence of Marine Corps training into specific moments, the most important being the Crucible, a grueling 54-hour physical and psychological endurance test that comes at the end of the training cycle, and was intended as the final and, in Krulak’s mind, only arbiter of whether a recruit is ready to become a Marine.The transformation process managed to curtail hazing for a few years, says Krulak, who retired from the corps in 1999. ‘‘As I recall, the number of courts-martial had a significant decrease during those four or five years when I was commandant. Problem was, after I left we had a changing world. I think in all these years of war, we lost a bit of our focus,’’ he says. ‘‘There are people who think war entitles them to behave any way they want.’’As new waves of recruits passed through Parris Island after Sept. 11, the Marines rushed to meet the demands for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Some of the reforms Krulak had put in place began to erode. Without the structure to support them, it was easy for some drill instructors to fall back on the violent methods they themselves experienced at boot camp. In 2005, a film crew from a South Carolina TV station inadvertently caught a terrified-looking recruit named Jason Tharp being hit by a drill instructor at the Parris Island pool. The following day, Tharp drowned during water-survival training; his drill instructor was charged with negligent homicide (and later acquitted). In 2011, a Parris Island drill instructor was sent to the brig for more than a year after he was found guilty of ordering one of his recruits to record a video of himself masturbating on the D.I.’s cellphone. The next year, a trainee received second- and third-degree burns to his buttocks requiring skin grafts after his drill instructor ordered him ‘‘to perform unauthorized exercises under an upside-down laundry bin on a floor covered in bleach,’’ according to Marine Corps documents. The D.I. was court-martialed in 2014, having been turned in by his senior D.I., who himself would later be court-martialed for ordering his platoon into the showers and making them run in place, while thickening the air by pouring bleach down the drain. After these stories broke, some Marines recalled the routine nature of such punishments and how infrequently they were ever brought to light. ‘‘Reporting it would have gotten nowhere,’’ a onetime Parris Island recruit, who claimed that he was made to scrub the floors with pure bleach, wrote in a Reddit thread in 2014. ‘‘I saw too much other stuff get swept under the rug.’’In June 2014, Lt. Col. Kate Germano arrived at Parris Island to head up the Fourth Battalion, which trains the corps’s female recruits. She found a culture badly in need of reform. Two of her female drill instructors were facing courts-martial for mistreating recruits and, in one case, abusing other, lower-ranking drill instructors, a phenomenon known as ‘‘hat hazing.’’ Abuses toward the recruits included ethnic slurs, so-called hard corrections like pushing and shoving and refusing to give recruits bathroom breaks. Germano, who spent 2004 and 2005 as an adjutant and Marine Corps legal officer in Iraq, was so alarmed that she decided to give her subordinates a PowerPoint presentation on Abu Ghraib. ‘‘I saw a direct similarity between the culture in both places,’’ she says.Germano believed that much of the failure rested with the depot’s regimental commander, Col. Daniel Haas, who had been at Parris Island since July 2013. (The Marines declined to make Colonel Haas available for a response.) Haas had a remote leadership style — ‘‘not the type of guy that will care and feed you,’’ one of his other battalion commanders later said — that clashed with Germano’s more hands-on approach, which included impromptu walk-throughs and counseling her subordinates to demand more of the female recruits to help them compete effectively with their male counterparts. While many of her Marines made changes, others perceived Ger­mano as meddlesome.In April 2015, less than a year after coming to Parris Island and 11 months before Raheel’s arrival, Germano received the results of the battalion’s annual Command Climate Survey, in which lower-ranking officers and noncommanding officers evaluate their commanders. In her survey, Germano’s subordinates described her as ‘‘hostile, unprofessional and abusive.’’ Though Germano maintains she was none of those things, the commanding general of Parris Island relieved her of her command following an investigation.AdvertisementIsolated in a remote corner of the depot, the Third had long been a rogue fief on Parris Island, its silent pact with Marine officialdom being that it would create the most disciplined recruits but would do so in its own way. It had operated in this manner for more than 60 years, and even in the era of values-based training, the Third was virtually unchanged.In 1998, a Navy chaplain, Thomas Creely, now retired, came to Parris Island to serve as chaplain for the recruit training regiment and noticed a particularly stark pattern of abuse in the Third. ‘‘For example,’’ he later wrote in a paper presented to the International Society for Military Ethics, ‘‘after lunch recruits were made to drink water until they vomited. Then they were made to do push-ups in their own vomit.’’ Creely worked with the command until 2003 to try to eradicate the problem, but the ‘‘blind loyalty of drill instructors,’’ who remained silent in the face of abuse, stood in the way. ‘‘What you have in the Third Battalion is a cycle of abuse,’’ Creely told me recently. ‘‘And until that cycle is broken, it doesn’t matter how much education you do.’’Lt. Col. Joshua Kissoon, who commanded the Third Battalion while Germano was on the base, was a by-the-book Marine who publicly took a hard stance against hazing. Shortly after assuming command, he instituted a zero-tolerance policy on the touching of recruits by their D.I.s and put his staff on warning: Any violation of the rules would be investigated. Between 2013 and 2015, 221 preliminary hazing investigations were conducted across the depot’s four battalions; 69 of those were from the Third, and more were punished from that battalion than any other. This included three D.I.s who were recommended for courts-martial after an investigation first reported by Wade Livingston at The Beaufort Gazette in February 2015 revealed a ‘‘staggering level of misconduct and recruit abuse,’’ with recruits reporting that they were choked, kicked and punched in the face, and that they had their heads slammed against walls.Some junior officers felt the D.I.s were being punished unfairly, though they themselves were never in the squad bays. (One later said his presence in the barracks ‘‘undermines’’ the drill instructors.) When Colonel Kissoon received the results of his own Command Climate Survey in April 2015, they were not much better than Germano’s. That spring, Kissoon began to take a softer line in some cases, according to Marines in the battalion. On his desktop, his subordinates later said, he kept a redacted copy of the command investigation that led to Germano’s firing. ‘‘This could happen to me,’’ he told colleagues.It was into this environment of ‘‘inconsistent decision making,’’ as some of Kissoon’s officers put it, that a new group of Third Batallion recruits landed in April 2015. Most were straight out of high school. A few had been college students. Two had master’s degrees. Another had been living in his car. All now learned their survival depended on how they handled the cognitive dissonance between what they learned as official Marine Corps policy and how that policy was systematically ignored.Jake Weaver, then 19, a new member of Platoon 3054, Lima Company, recalls that when he met his D.I.s, they gave him and his fellow recruits a choice. ‘‘You want to be trained like Marines, right? Not like crappy ‘individual’ Marines?’’‘‘Individualism’’ was a sign of what the D.I.s called ‘‘the new corps,’’ a place where ‘‘everyone can walk through and become a Marine,’’ Weaver recalls, and drill instructors couldn’t get away with what they used to. ‘‘They’d convince us to feel like it was wrong to be trained by the book,’’ he says, ‘‘and if we wanted to be trained right, the old-school way, we had to let them beat us and haze us and not say anything, because that’s how you become a Marine.’’AdvertisementWeaver, who grew up in rural Interlachen, Fla., was the grandson of a Marine who fought in the Korean War. His senior drill instructor was a squarely built Marine who told his recruits he’d served in Iraq. He also claimed he was involved in a friendly-fire incident in which 10 Marine infantrymen were killed, though most officials I spoke with say the story is doubtful. (‘‘There wasn’t an incident in that whole war where you had 10 or 12 people killed in one swoop,’’ Krulak told me.) As Weaver saw it, his D.I. behaved like a person with PTSD. ‘‘He lost his temper like crazy. Some days he’d be supermotivating toward us,’’ he says, ‘‘and then an hour later we’d be almost done for the day, and he’d walk in the squad bay and just flip out.’’During the day, platoons were put through the standard exhaustive physical and tactical training, interspersed with classes or informal discussions on moral courage in battle. But the real making of Marines went on at night. When darkness fell, a D.I. would sometimes dump a bottle of Gain detergent on the floor and order recruits, both hands on their wooden scrub or ‘‘scuzz’’ brushes, to run across the length of the squad bay in a bear-crawl position, an exercise that they timed and called the Indy 500. Other nights, the drill instructors would create what they called a ‘‘hurricane’’ by dumping everyone’s things on the floor, sometimes covered with detergent, sunscreen or shaving cream. Over the months, recruits in the battalion lost consciousness, were revived and never told a soul. A few developed life-threatening rhabdomyolysis, a rapid breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue, often caused by overexertion.Gunnery Sgt. Joseph Felix was one of Lima Company’s most aggressive D.I.s. Recruits knew to be scared of Felix, even those like Weaver who weren’t in his platoon. ‘‘He was pretty frickin’ psycho,’’ one Marine recalls. Felix, a swaggering man with a shaved head, enlisted in 2002 and served in Iraq and Afghanistan, working as a crew chief maintaining aircraft and their weapons systems. He talked about his resentment toward Muslims, whom he blamed for killing some of his friends in the war. (Felix’s lawyer did not respond to requests for comment.) Ameer Bourmeche, a Muslim recruit from Brooklyn and Weaver’s platoonmate, soon became Felix’s target. ‘‘I remember him calling Bourmeche a ‘terrorist,’ ’’ recalls the recruit in Platoon 3054, who asked not to be identified. ‘‘He used to mess with him: ‘Where are the W.M.D.s?’ ‘Were you part of 9/11?’ ’’Though Bourmeche, who declined to comment for this article, never talked about his faith to anyone’s recollection, the platoon was made aware of it during their first week of training, when one of their drill instructors polled the group on their religions. Weaver thought it was strange: ‘‘He was giving us this talk about how we’re all brothers in the Marine Corps, and how we’re all in this together, no matter what race or religion we are. Then he was asking us: ‘What religions do we have here? I’m sure we have Christians. I’m sure we have an atheist. I’m sure you’re a Baptist.’ ’’ He looked at Bourmeche. ‘‘What’s your religion?’’‘‘Islam, sir,’’ Bourmeche replied.The sergeant seemed intrigued. ‘‘There’s nothing wrong with recruit Bourmeche being a Muslim,’’ he said.Less than one-fifth of 1 percent of the Marine Corps is Muslim. Across the entire United States military, there are fewer than 6,000 self-reported Muslim active-duty and reserve troops, or about 0.27 percent out of a total force of 2.2 million. Many of the recruits had never met a Muslim in their lives. ‘‘I was pretty narrow-minded when I came in,’’ one of Bourmeche’s platoonmates admits. ‘‘I was like: ‘Why is he here?’ ’’Bourmeche seemed to be singled out nearly every day for punishment. ‘‘He was one of the smartest kids in the platoon, scored really high on all his tests, but they just messed with him,’’ Weaver says. He remembers Bourmeche twice being sent to the medical unit after punitive intensive training sessions intended, his friends figured, to force him to drop out. He refused. In early July, Platoon 3054 took part in their final, 54-hour test, the Crucible, grinding through 90-degree heat. Each recruit finished the course and earned the precious eagle, globe and anchor pins and the title ‘‘Marine.’’On July 14, 2015, Felix and several other D.I.s entered the squad bay in the middle of the night. It appeared they’d been drinking in the small office, or ‘‘D.I. hut,’’ at the far end of the barracks, where drill instructors on night duty sometimes slept. Felix was so drunk ‘‘he might not have known what he did the next day,’’ according to one member of Platoon 3054.Advertisement‘‘Where’s the terrorist?’’ Felix said. He ap​proached Bourmeche’s rack. ‘‘You a terrorist?’’‘‘No, sir!’’‘‘You a Muslim?’’‘‘Yes, sir!’’‘‘Attention!’’Bourmeche jumped down.‘‘Column left!’’ Felix and another D.I. marched him into the shower room, where, as Bourmeche would later tell investigators, the drill instructors turned on the water and made him do push-ups, high-knees and crunches. Then, when he was thoroughly wet, they marched him into the laundry room.‘‘Get in the dryer.’’ Bourmeche folded his six-foot, 157-pound frame into the Speed Queen. Felix said that the Marine Corps has ‘‘a way of weeding out spies.’’ He continued: ‘‘I’m going to find out who you really are.’’ Then he closed the door.‘‘Who are you working for?’’ Felix called.‘‘Nobody, sir!’’ Bourmeche answered.Felix ran the dryer for half a minute and opened it.‘‘What’s your religion?’’‘‘Islam, sir!’’In the squad bay, Weaver and the others, ordered out of their beds, were pushing a recruit around like a scuzz brush. They heard Bourmeche’s body thud as it hit the bottom of the dryer. ‘‘You’re going to kill us the first chance you get, aren’t you, terrorist? What are your plans?’’Inside the dryer, Bourmeche began to cry. His neck and shoulder were burned.Felix opened the door. ‘‘Are you still a Muslim?’’‘‘Yes, sir!’’A half an hour later, it was over. Bourmeche, damp and shaken, was told to go back to the squad bay. As he was standing by his bed, a D.I. approached him. ‘‘It’s pretty effed-up what they did to you back there,’’ he said. Bourmeche agreed. ‘‘You’re not going to tell a senior drill instructor about this, though, right?’’Advertisement‘‘No, sir,’’ Bourmeche answered.The next night, it happened again. Felix told Bourmeche to hand him his martial-arts belt. He tied Bourmeche’s shoelaces together, then took the belt, wrapped it around Bourmeche’s neck, strung it under his laces and tightened it so Bourmeche bent at the waist. ‘‘Are you a terrorist?’’ Felix held the end of the belt like a leash. He began to walk him like a dog. ‘‘Are you a spy?’’Bourmeche, in pain, began screaming. ‘‘No, sir!’’‘‘Yell ‘Allah akbar.’ ’’‘‘Allah akbar!’’While the rest of the platoon looked on, Felix crushed the platoon’s flagpole into Bourmeche’s toes. Then he handed him a scuzz brush. ‘‘Cut off his head,’’ he said, pointing to another new Marine. ‘‘Show us you’re a terrorist.’’Bourmeche struck his platoonmate in the neck with the brush several times. Felix seemed pleased. ‘‘This is how the Taliban would do it,’’ he told the platoon. ‘‘And he’d cut your head off just as quick as his brethren.’’Another D.I. shook his head. ‘‘We let a full-blood terrorist join the corps,’’ he said. Afterward, no one said a word. What happens on Parris Island stays on Parris Island — that had been the message all through boot camp.Weaver, one of the platoon’s highest-performing recruits, was shaken. During a family picnic just before his graduation, he told his parents that ‘‘crazy stuff’’ happened during training. ‘‘I can’t talk about it here,’’ he said nervously. ‘‘After we get off the island, we can talk about it.’’Over the next few months, Weaver tried to push what he experienced to the back of his mind, but it was always there. He had believed the Marines was an ethical organization. Then a D.I. bashed his head against a wall for seemingly no reason. And another, after asking if he was a devout Christian, taunted him: ‘‘Say ‘goddamn.’ ’’ That fall, Weaver, then in his last phase of training in Pensacola, Fla., suffered a breakdown and was hospitalized with suicidal thoughts.Having lost his desire to serve, he received word he was being given an ‘‘other-than-honorable discharge’’ from the Marines. His father, Troy, decided to phone his commanding officer and tell her what he knew. ‘‘The fact is, the abuse would have never been reported had I not stood up and said, ‘Look, you’re not going to give him a bad discharge because of what he went through at Parris Island,’ ’’ Troy told me. ‘‘Those kids weren’t talking.’’ (Weaver was given an other-than-honorable discharge, which he continues to contest.)AdvertisementOn Nov. 5, 2015, Marine officials on Parris Island began an investigation into allegations of abuse based on statements Weaver, Bourmeche and another former recruit from Platoon 3054 had given their commanding officer. Weaver claims the investigators spent only 10 minutes talking to him. Kissoon, through his lawyer, maintains that during this period, Col. Paul Cucinotta, who had replaced Haas as regimental commander in the summer of 2015, refused to brief him on the inquiry as it was unfolding. Internal Marine reports later described the investigation as ‘‘suboptimal.’’When the investigators submitted their findings to Cucinotta in January 2016, the training regiment’s executive officer, Lt. Col. Christopher Lynch, found the evidence persuasive enough to recommend that those involved be ‘‘sat down’’ or suspended from their duties. Cucinotta later claimed he agreed. (‘‘We disagree with Colonel Cucinotta’s testimony,’’ says Kissoon’s attorney, Colby Volkey.) As of February, however, none of those implicated in the investigation had been suspended. Four months after the hazing reports, Gunnery Sgt. Joseph Felix returned to the Third Battalion and assumed the title of senior drill instructor, this time for Platoon 3042, Kilo Company.As the recruits sat crossed-legged, Sergeant Felix stepped forward. ‘‘I am your senior drill instructor,’’ he said with the signature barking cadence D.I.s use to exert their authority, and then began his scripted pledge. He promised to treat them with ‘‘firmness, fairness, dignity and compassion,’’ and informed them that abuse would not be tolerated.There wasn’t anything particularly unusual about that first day. The new recruits were ordered to perform hundreds of burpees. They were told to dangle their rifles off the ends of their pinkies. They were ‘‘dog-piled’’ into a corner and then ordered to run back and forth, over and over. One of Raheel’s platoonmates, who shared with me his detailed recollections on the condition of anonymity, thought he was going to pass out. ‘‘And I was in pretty good shape,’’ he says. ‘‘I remember one kid had a panic attack and started throwing up, and I think he peed himself, too.’’ The officers stood in the back of the squad bay, he says. When they left, ‘‘that’s when the real hell started.’’On the morning of March 13, less than 24 hours after being picked up by his platoon, Raheel announced to his D.I.s that he’d rather die than continue training. He would jump out the squad-bay window if he had to.When a recruit threatens suicide, everything stops. At first the D.I.s tried to reason with Raheel: What would his mother think were he to come home without becoming a Marine? ‘‘I’d tell my mother goodbye and kill myself,’’ he said. ‘‘The future does not matter.’’ The Marines took Raheel’s belt and boot laces to prevent him from strangling himself.Suicide threats are common during the early weeks of boot camp, though how many are serious is unclear. ‘‘Everyone knows saying you’re suicidal is a ticket off Parris Island,’’ Raheel’s platoonmate says. Sickness or broken bones, on the other hand, will get a recruit a long stint in medical, after which they will simply be assigned to another company and start training all over again.AdvertisementBase officials determined Raheel didn’t qualify for emergency transport to the hospital. Instead, he was ‘‘cross-decked’’: They moved him, still without laces or a belt, to another platoon’s squad bay. Over the next 24 hours, he sat there cross-legged on a mattress in the middle of the room while a ‘‘shadow watch’’ of recruits shined a flashlight on his face and took turns monitoring him around the clock. At some point during this period, Raheel, who had to request permission to leave the mattress to use the bathroom, recanted his suicide threat and said he’d decided he wanted to be a Marine.The next morning, Felix escorted Raheel to recruit liaison services, an office set up to ascertain if recruits had enlisted fraudulently (such as by failing to disclose a history of suicidal ideation), and to motivate struggling recruits to return to training. Drill instructors who accompany recruits to these sessions usually sit in a waiting area, but Felix ‘‘stood about 10 feet away,’’ according to the report, while Raheel provided what was referred to as a ‘‘voluntary statement’’ retracting his threat. ‘‘This recruit thought it was the only way to quit,’’ he said. ‘‘This recruit never meant that and regrets it.’’ The base’s mental-health unit deemed him to be at a ‘‘low risk for harm,’’ and Raheel went back to training.It would be noted later, in the Marines’ report, that Raheel, shortly after saying he wanted to kill himself, confided to the military police who were going to escort him to the hospital that he ‘‘could not handle’’ being hit by his drill instructors. The allegation was noted and disregarded several times by what appeared to be several officials.In reviewing the incidents of that week, the Marines made no mention of the four days after Raheel resumed training. His platoonmate, though, recalls them as torture. As one report noted, Platoon 3042’s senior drill instructor ‘‘taught his subordinate drill instructors that in order to be successful at training recruits, they needed to ‘hate recruits.’ ’’ They were called ‘‘bitches,’’ ‘‘faggots,’’ ‘‘maggots,’’ ‘‘little bitches,’’ ‘‘pussies’’ and ‘‘retards.’’ A Russian-born recruit was called ‘‘the Russian,’’ or ‘‘the cosmonaut,’’ and was asked if he was a Russian spy. Raheel was called a terrorist. Felix asked on one occasion if he needed his turban.Raheel’s platoonmate didn’t understand why Raheel had joined the Marines. Orders seemed to confound him. Rather than simply following them, he thought about what he was asked. ‘‘Like a normal person,’’ the platoonmate says. ‘‘It’s not necessarily wrong, but it’s not how they wanted it. It wasn’t the Marine way of doing things.’’ This earned Raheel, who always ‘‘looked like a scared animal,’’ as his platoonmate says, undue attention from the D.I.s. ‘‘Anything that’s not masculine — if you’re not six feet tall and built like a football player — that’s not what they want. They want people who are the definition of Marines. Anyone else, you have to prove yourself.’’Once, the platoonmate recalls, Felix stuffed a recruit in a footlocker. Another time, he made a recruit eat nothing but Jell-O and mashed potatoes for a few days, and threatened that if he didn’t improve, he’d have to stuff him in a locker, too. Choking recruits until they were gasping for air was common. Some of the D.I.s, the platoonmate suspected, were almost as terrified of their senior D.I. as the recruits were. One drill instructor, he recalled, became so ill that he projectile-vomited all over the squad bay while simultaneously yelling at the recruits after he himself had been screamed at by Felix moments before. ‘‘We never knew if it was blood or Gatorade, but he’s vomiting this red stuff while screaming, and we were like, What is going on?’’On March 17, Platoon 3042 received instruction on Marine Corps mixed-martial-arts punching techniques. According to the Marines’ report, recruits in Lima Company were instructed to throw a ‘‘flurry of punches’’ as hard as they could, and not to listen to their instructors’ directions but instead ‘‘just to keep punching.’’ It was routine, recruits later said, for their drill instructors to pair bigger or stronger recruits against the weaker or poorly performing recruits. During the March 17 drill, recruits were punched repeatedly in unprotected parts of their body, including their jaws. One sustained two broken ribs. The abuse, according to the report, caused one recruit ‘‘to cry during the event.’’ The platoonmate believed one of the targeted recruits was Raheel, but he can’t be sure. ‘‘It’s really all a blur,’’ he says. It was only Day 4. Many recruits didn’t even know one another’s names. Terror caused them to avoid making eye contact. ‘‘Lots of stuff happened while we slept,’’ he says. ‘‘Or in the dark.’’At around 2 a.m. on March 18, Raheel woke up his bunkmate. He was in pain, he said. We’re all in pain, the other recruit told him. Two hours later, the recruits awoke and prepared to sound off before leaving for chow. Raheel pointed to his throat and silently mouthed words. When two D.I.s started yelling at him, Raheel handed one of them a note. ‘‘This recruit has to go to medical. This recruit’s throat has been swollen for three days and is getting worse,’’ it said. ‘‘This recruit also coughed blood a few times last night. And this recruit completely lost his voice and can barely whisper. This recruit’s whole neck is in a lot of pain.’’AdvertisementA D.I. told Raheel they would deal with the matter after breakfast. He sat silently through the meal, zombielike. Upon returning to the barracks, the platoon set about cleaning, and Raheel was called to the front of the squad bay. He was supposed to fill out a form so he could go to the medical unit. He stood before Felix but failed to greet him properly, perhaps because he couldn’t speak. His silence seemed to enrage the senior drill instructor. ‘‘Get back!’’ he shouted. Raheel ran 144 feet across the squad bay from one end to the other. ‘‘Siddiqui, run!’’ Felix continued. ‘‘Get back! Run!’’His platoonmate, who had been quietly making his bed and trying to stay out of the D.I.s’ line of sight, watched Raheel running back and forth. Suddenly Raheel grabbed his throat, crying, and fell to the floor. Some recruits thought he was faking. ‘‘I don’t know if he did it willingly, I don’t know if he was just exhausted, but he dropped,’’ the platoonmate says.‘‘Get up, Siddiqui!’’ Felix shouted. ‘‘I know you’re faking. Get up!’’At this point, reports differ. Raheel appeared to be unconscious. A D.I. claimed he rubbed his knuckles across Raheel’s sternum to revive him. Other recruits and drill instructors say that never happened. The platoonmate I interviewed recalls seeing Raheel, on the floor, clutching his throat. Leaning over, Felix slapped him across the face. Five feet away, Raheel’s platoonmate thought at first the D.I. was ‘‘acting like an emergency responder,’’ trying to revive him. But then he slapped him again, so hard that the sound echoed across the squad bay.‘‘And Siddiqui gets up, and he starts dead sprinting, which I thought was a logical thing to do: This is boot camp, he’s running away,’’ his platoonmate says. But he was running too fast. ‘‘He is literally sprinting the fastest I’d ever seen anyone sprint,’’ he says. Slowly it dawned on him what Raheel was about to do. ‘‘We were all still cleaning, kind of dispersed around the squad bay.’’ The doors, he recalls, were open. ‘‘And he straight-up jumped.’’An air ambulance was requested to take Raheel to a hospital in Savannah, Ga., 40 miles away, but the request was denied because of heavy fog. A second air lift was scuttled, and so Marines drove him to Beaufort Memorial Hospital, where after an hour of sustained effort in the emergency room, doctors decided Raheel needed higher-level care. Three hours after his fall, he arrived at the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston. It was too late: At 10:06, after more than an hour of attempts to save his life, Raheel was pronounced dead.The following day, an autopsy was performed at the hospital. The medical examiner concluded that Raheel died of blunt-force trauma sustained during his fall. But the autopsy report, details of which were shown to me by the Siddiqui family, also found evidence of petechial hemorrhaging, which can be caused by anything from heavy coughing to vomiting or asphyxiation and strangulation. Several days later, J. Edward Allen, the Beaufort County coroner, wrote a final autopsy report concluding that ‘‘in light of the history provided and the autopsy findings,’’ Raheel had committed suicide.A week after Raheel died, his body was sent back to his parents in Michigan. At the funeral home, the family stared down in horror at their son. His arms, chest, stomach and legs were purple. There were ligature marks, not unlike the ridges of a webbed military belt, around his neck, which had not been mentioned in the autopsy report. To Ghazala it looked as if her son had been tortured.AdvertisementIn Beaufort, a city with three military installations that collectively pump over $1.5 billion into the local economy, the news that a Marine recruit had died on Parris Island was met with studied silence. ‘‘Marine Corps boot camp isn’t the Boy Scouts,’’ one reader posted on the Facebook page of The Beaufort Gazette, which broke the story on March 20. ‘‘Stay home if you can’t handle some hazing.’’ Hazing had not been mentioned publicly at this point, but in Detroit, the Siddiquis’ Democratic congresswoman, Representative Debbie Dingell, heard through an anonymous tip that religious bias might have played a role in Raheel’s death. In April, Dingell wrote to the Marine commandant, Gen. Robert Neller, asking that an ‘‘unbiased inquiry’’ be made into the matter. Dingell recently told me that soon after she wrote the letter, she received anonymous calls telling her to stay out of Marine business. ‘‘Some of my own colleagues warned me, ‘You don’t want to challenge the Marines on their training methods,’ ’’ she said.The official investigation into the death of Raheel Siddiqui lasted over a year and spawned two other investigations: a more thorough examination of the hazing allegations in the Bourmeche case and a broader hazing inquiry requested in spring 2016 by the Obama White House, after the president received an anonymous email from unnamed ‘‘concerned loved ones of innocent recruits’’ claiming their children were being abused.On Sept. 8, 2016, the Marine Corps released the findings of these investigations. That same day, the corps announced that 20 Marines — including, it was later revealed, three teams of drill instructors, several junior officers, Kissoon and the depot’s new regimental commander, Col. Paul Cucinotta — had been relieved of duty and faced punishment pending the results of further investigation. (In early June, Kissoon appeared before the military’s version of a grand jury, and he is still awaiting charges. Six Marines, representing much of the chain of command, were granted immunity or other considerations to testify against him, according to Kissoon’s lawyer.) The reports were heavily redacted; in the 132-page command inquiry into Raheel’s death, the last 43 pages were entirely blacked out.Of those involved in the three investigations, just six Marines have been formally charged with wrongdoing. Four Marines — one of whom was acquitted at trial, another who pleaded guilty, a third who made ‘‘a pretrial agreement with prosecutors,’’ according to a Marine spokesman, and a fourth who faces a general court-martial — had charges levied against them for abuse-related incidents elsewhere in Lima Company. Felix and another drill instructor, Staff Sgt. Michael Eldridge, were charged with a range of offenses including cruelty and maltreatment, drunk and disorderly conduct and failure to obey a general order. In Felix’s case, the charges also included obstruction of justice stemming from the dryer incident involving Bourmeche and the hazing of Raheel. Both face general courts-martial later this summer.A number of former and current Marine officials, including several high-ranking officers, say they are agonized by the reports. ‘‘What I’m hearing makes my stomach turn,’’ the senior officer I spoke to says. ‘‘This isn’t rocket science. We have procedures and policies and rules on the books against this stuff, and people have to enforce them. I mean, who is in charge? If you are having a hard time controlling those drill instructors, you’re not a leader.’’Though it would be tempting to blame the allegations of abuse on a few Marines — the ‘‘few bad apples’’ theory — Raheel’s platoonmate told me that rough practices in his platoon continued long after Felix and his drill instructor team were replaced, the very next day, with another team, and after that team was later replaced with another. The message, he says, was ‘‘the D.I.s could pretty much get away with anything. Let’s say you did report something. They’d change the D.I., and what happens after that? Another D.I. who presumably was friends with the prior D.I. is going to make your life hell.’’On Aug. 7, nearly a year and a half to the day that Raheel Siddiqui arrived on Parris Island, Gunnery Sgt. Joseph Felix will stand trial, a proceeding expected to last at least two weeks. The charges against him are technically violations of military discipline; he has not faced broader criminal charges like assault. The Siddiqui family thinks the charges are insufficient. ‘‘We were advised that an assault charge was not brought because the [other charges] carried a harsher penalty,’’ says Shiraz Khan, the family’s lawyer. ‘‘Well, the elements of assault are much different, and so are the implications. The systemic hazing, abuse and maltreatment suffered by Raheel Siddiqui while at Parris Island was not the result of a single incident by one individual. We aren’t blind to what Raheel’s body and autopsy say.’’When I visited the Siddiquis’ small apartment late last fall, Ghazala, wearing jeans and a sparkly blue hijab, showed me photographs she took of her son’s body at the funeral home. ‘‘Why would they do this to my son?’’ she said, distraught, pausing over a photograph of Raheel’s neck. Taking me upstairs, she led me into his room, which was spotless, almost antiseptic, a shrine to a sometimes mischievous yet fundamentally obedient boy who prayed at least four times a day, dressed in colorful shirts and smiled so much and so often that those who knew him could never imagine him being depressed. Ghazala showed off Raheel’s academic awards and his orange Home Depot apron inscribed with good-luck messages written by every one of his colleagues. The dress-blue uniform he would have worn upon graduating boot camp hung in his closet, neatly pressed. The Marines had dressed Raheel’s body in it. ‘‘He was brainwashed,’’ Ghazala said, wiping away a tear. ‘‘He’s smart, intelligent, beautiful, excellent boy. Perfect. I am so proud of my son.’’ Ghazala spoke of him in the present tense.AdvertisementNo one from the family has agreed to be interviewed since last winter. ‘‘Their son is gone, there are no answers and they’re suffering,’’ says Khan, who told me that his office has received only 20 or so of about 220 pages they’ve requested from the investigation, and have had very little direct discussion with the Marines. For the most part, he says, they have learned about any progress in the case by reading the newspapers.Kate Germano, who retired from the Marines in 2016, isn’t surprised. ‘‘The last thing the Marines would want is anyone connecting the dots,’’ she told me recently. ‘‘This is a cultural issue. The conduct that is considered acceptable at Parris Island, from the failures in leadership to the hands-on methods the drill instructors use, would not be acceptable anywhere else in the Marine Corps. But down there, for whatever reason, it’s considered a badge of honor. Those who don’t see it that way are considered weak. But it’s not the kids’ fault.’’The island’s new commanding general, Austin Renforth, known as Sparky, who took control several months after Raheel’s death, insists they are rooting out the problem. Under his watch, officers play a more active role in supervising drill instructors, something many officials believe is essential to reforming the culture. Renforth, though, insists the problems on Parris Island aren’t cultural. ‘‘This place is such a fishbowl — when someone does something wrong it gets national attention, but it’s not systemic,’’ he says. That said, he allowed, ‘‘I have to make sure it never happens again.’’ Renforth doesn’t explain how he plans to do this, other than to say he wants everyone involved in making Marines to have ‘‘buy-in,’’ as he puts it.Renforth is the epitome of a combat Marine: graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, commander during the first gulf war and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, son of a World War II veteran who himself went through boot camp on Parris Island in 1941. This is his first training command, and he says he was surprised that many of his D.I.s were not combat vets. A year ago, in the very beginning of his tenure, Renforth, who has five children, considered reaching out to Ghazala and Massood. He changed his mind. ‘‘I just didn’t feel it was my place,’’ he says.An article on July 9 about Marine recruits at Parris Island misspelled the name of the town where Jake Weaver, a former Marine, grew up. It is Interlachen, Fla., not Interlaken. The article also misidentified the rank of Victor Krulak. He was a lieutenant general at the time of his retirement in 1968, not a brigadier general.Janet Reitman is an investigative journalist and contributing editor at Rolling Stone, where she covers politics and national security.See More »Go to Home Page »As the F.B.I. investigated Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign, James B. Comey tried to keep the bureau out of politics but plunged it into the center of a bitter election.WASHINGTON — The day before he upended the 2016 election, James B. Comey, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, summoned agents and lawyers to his conference room. They had been debating all day, and it was time for a decision.Mr. Comey’s plan was to tell Congress that the F.B.I. had received new evidence and was reopening its investigation into Hillary Clinton, the presidential front-runner. The move would violate the policies of an agency that does not reveal its investigations or do anything that may influence an election. But Mr. Comey had declared the case closed, and he believed he was obligated to tell Congress that had changed.“Should you consider what you’re about to do may help elect Donald Trump president?” an adviser asked him, Mr. Comey recalled recently at a closed meeting with F.B.I. agents.He could not let politics affect his decision, he replied. “If we ever start considering who might be affected, and in what way, by what we do, we’re done,” he told the agents.AdvertisementBut with polls showing Mrs. Clinton holding a comfortable lead, Mr. Comey ended up plunging the F.B.I. into the molten center of a bitter election. Fearing the backlash that would come if it were revealed after the election that the F.B.I. had been investigating the next president and had kept it a secret, Mr. Comey sent a letter informing Congress that the case was reopened.AdvertisementWhat he did not say was that the F.B.I. was also investigating the campaign of Donald J. Trump. Just weeks before, Mr. Comey had declined to answer a question from Congress about whether there was such an investigation. Only in March, long after the election, did Mr. Comey confirm that there was one.For Mr. Comey, keeping the F.B.I. out of politics is such a preoccupation that he once said he would never play basketball with President Barack Obama because of the appearance of being chummy with the man who appointed him. But in the final months of the presidential campaign, the leader of the nation’s pre-eminent law enforcement agency shaped the contours, if not the outcome, of the presidential race by his handling of the Clinton and Trump-related investigations.An examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with more than 30 current and former law enforcement, congressional and other government officials, found that while partisanship was not a factor in Mr. Comey’s approach to the two investigations, he handled them in starkly different ways. In the case of Mrs. Clinton, he rewrote the script, partly based on the F.B.I.’s expectation that she would win and fearing the bureau would be accused of helping her. In the case of Mr. Trump, he conducted the investigation by the book, with the F.B.I.’s traditional secrecy. Many of the officials discussed the investigations on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to reporters.Mr. Comey made those decisions with the supreme self-confidence of a former prosecutor who, in a distinguished career, has cultivated a reputation for what supporters see as fierce independence, and detractors view as media-savvy arrogance.The Times found that this go-it-alone strategy was shaped by his distrust of senior officials at the Justice Department, who he and other F.B.I. officials felt had provided Mrs. Clinton with political cover. The distrust extended to his boss, Loretta E. Lynch, the attorney general, who Mr. Comey believed had subtly helped play down the Clinton investigation.His misgivings were only fueled by the discovery last year of a document written by a Democratic operative that seemed — at least in the eyes of Mr. Comey and his aides — to raise questions about her independence. In a bizarre example of how tangled the F.B.I. investigations had become, the document had been stolen by Russian hackers.The examination also showed that at one point, President Obama himself was reluctant to disclose the suspected Russian influence in the election last summer, for fear his administration would be accused of meddling.AdvertisementMr. Comey, the highest-profile F.B.I. director since J. Edgar Hoover, has not squarely addressed his decisions last year. He has touched on them only obliquely, asserting that the F.B.I. is blind to partisan considerations. “We’re not considering whose ox will be gored by this action or that action, whose fortune will be helped,” he said at a public event recently. “We just don’t care. We can’t care. We only ask: ‘What are the facts? What is the law?’”But circumstances and choices landed him in uncharted and perhaps unwanted territory, as he made what he thought were the least damaging choices from even less desirable alternatives.“This was unique in the history of the F.B.I.,” said Michael B. Steinbach, the former senior national security official at the F.B.I., who worked closely with Mr. Comey, describing the circumstances the agency faced last year while investigating both the Republican and Democratic candidates for president. “People say, ‘This has never been done before.’ Well, there never was a before. Or ‘That’s not normally how you do it.’ There wasn’t anything normal about this.”Mr. Comey owes his job and his reputation to the night in 2004 when he rushed to the Washington hospital room of John Ashcroft, the attorney general, and prevented Bush administration officials from persuading him to reauthorize a classified program that had been ruled unconstitutional. At the time, Mr. Comey, a Republican, was the deputy attorney general.Years later, when Mr. Obama was looking for a new F.B.I. director, Mr. Comey seemed an inspired bipartisan choice. But his style eventually grated on his bosses at the Justice Department.On other issues, Mr. Comey bucked the administration but won praise from his agents, who saw him as someone who did what he believed was right, regardless of the political ramifications.“Jim sees his role as apolitical and independent,” said Daniel C. Richman, a longtime confidant and friend of Mr. Comey’s. “The F.B.I. director, even as he reports to the attorney general, often has to stand apart from his boss.”AdvertisementThe F.B.I.’s involvement with Mrs. Clinton’s emails began in July 2015 when it received a letter from the inspector general for the intelligence community.The letter said that classified information had been found on Mrs. Clinton’s home email server, which she had used as secretary of state. The secret email setup was already proving to be a damaging issue in her presidential campaign.Mr. Comey’s deputies quickly concluded that there was reasonable evidence that a crime may have occurred in the way classified materials were handled, and that the F.B.I. had to investigate. “We knew as an organization that we didn’t have a choice,” said John Giacalone, a former mob investigator who had risen to become the F.B.I.’s top national security official.On July 10, 2015, the F.B.I. opened a criminal investigation, code-named “Midyear,” into Mrs. Clinton’s handling of classified information. The Midyear team included two dozen investigators led by a senior analyst and by an experienced F.B.I. supervisor, Peter Strzok, a former Army officer who had worked on some of the most secretive investigations in recent years involving Russian and Chinese espionage.There was controversy almost immediately.Responding to questions from The Times, the Justice Department confirmed that it had received a criminal referral — the first step toward a criminal investigation — over Mrs. Clinton’s handling of classified information.But the next morning, the department revised its statement.“The department has received a referral related to the potential compromise of classified information,” the new statement read. “It is not a criminal referral.”At the F.B.I., this was a distinction without a difference: Despite what officials said in public, agents had been alerted to mishandled classified information and in response, records show, had opened a full criminal investigation.AdvertisementIn September of that year, as Mr. Comey prepared for his first public questions about the case at congressional hearings and press briefings, he went across the street to the Justice Department to meet with Ms. Lynch and her staff.Both had been federal prosecutors in New York — Mr. Comey in the Manhattan limelight, Ms. Lynch in the lower-wattage Brooklyn office. The 6-foot-8 Mr. Comey commanded a room and the spotlight. Ms. Lynch, 5 feet tall, was known for being cautious and relentlessly on message. In her five months as attorney general, she had shown no sign of changing her style.At the meeting, everyone agreed that Mr. Comey should not reveal details about the Clinton investigation. But Ms. Lynch told him to be even more circumspect: Do not even call it an investigation, she said, according to three people who attended the meeting. Call it a “matter.”It was a by-the-book decision. But Mr. Comey and other F.B.I. officials regarded it as disingenuous in an investigation that was so widely known. And Mr. Comey was concerned that a Democratic attorney general was asking him to be misleading and line up his talking points with Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, according to people who spoke with him afterward.As the meeting broke up, George Z. Toscas, a national security prosecutor, ribbed Mr. Comey. “I guess you’re the Federal Bureau of Matters now,” Mr. Toscas said, according to two people who were there.Despite his concerns, Mr. Comey avoided calling it an investigation. “I am confident we have the resources and the personnel assigned to the matter,” Mr. Comey told reporters days after the meeting.The F.B.I. investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s email server was the biggest political story in the country in the fall of 2015. But something much bigger was happening in Washington. And nobody recognized it.AdvertisementWhile agents were investigating Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic National Committee’s computer system was compromised. It appeared to have been the work of Russian hackers.The significance of this moment is obvious now, but it did not immediately cause alarm at the F.B.I. or the Justice Department.Over the previous year, dozens of think tanks, universities and political organizations associated with both parties had fallen prey to Russian spear phishing — emails that tricked victims into clicking on malicious links. The D.N.C. intrusion was a concern, but no more than the others.Despite moments of tension between leaders of the F.B.I. and the Justice Department, agents and prosecutors working on the case made progress. “The investigative team did a thorough job,” Mr. Giacalone said. “They left no stone unturned.”They knew it would not be enough to prove that Mrs. Clinton was sloppy or careless. To bring charges, they needed evidence that she knowingly received classified information or set up her server for that purpose.That was especially important after a deal the Justice Department had made with David H. Petraeus, the retired general and former director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Petraeus had passed classified information to his biographer, with whom he was having an affair, and the evidence was damning: He revealed the names of covert agents and other secrets, he was recorded saying that he knew it was wrong, and he lied to the F.B.I.But over Mr. Comey’s objections, the Justice Department let Mr. Petraeus plead guilty in April 2015 to a misdemeanor count of mishandling classified information. Charging Mrs. Clinton with the same crime, without evidence of intent, would be difficult.AdvertisementOne nagging issue was that Mrs. Clinton had deleted an unknown number of emails from her early months at the State Department — before she installed the home server. Agents believed that those emails, sent from a BlackBerry account, might be their best hope of assessing Mrs. Clinton’s intentions when she moved to the server. If only they could find them.In spring last year, Mr. Strzok, the counterintelligence supervisor, reported to Mr. Comey that Mrs. Clinton had clearly been careless, but agents and prosecutors agreed that they had no proof of intent. Agents had not yet interviewed Mrs. Clinton or her aides, but the outcome was coming into focus.Nine months into the investigation, it became clear to Mr. Comey that Mrs. Clinton was almost certainly not going to face charges. He quietly began work on talking points, toying with the notion that in the midst of a bitter presidential campaign, a Justice Department led by Democrats may not have the credibility to close the case, and that he alone should explain that decision to the public.A document obtained by the F.B.I. reinforced that idea.During Russia’s hacking campaign against the United States, intelligence agencies could peer, at times, into Russian networks and see what had been taken. Early last year, F.B.I. agents received a batch of hacked documents, and one caught their attention.The document, which has been described as both a memo and an email, was written by a Democratic operative who expressed confidence that Ms. Lynch would keep the Clinton investigation from going too far, according to several former officials familiar with the document.Read one way, it was standard Washington political chatter. Read another way, it suggested that a political operative might have insight into Ms. Lynch’s thinking.Normally, when the F.B.I. recommends closing a case, the Justice Department agrees and nobody says anything. The consensus in both places was that the typical procedure would not suffice in this instance, but who would be the spokesman?The document complicated that calculation, according to officials. If Ms. Lynch announced that the case was closed, and Russia leaked the document, Mr. Comey believed it would raise doubts about the independence of the investigation.AdvertisementMr. Comey sought advice from someone he has trusted for many years. He dispatched his deputy to meet with David Margolis, who had served at the Justice Department since the Johnson administration and who, at 76, was dubbed the Yoda of the department.What exactly was said is not known. Mr. Margolis died of heart problems a few months later. But some time after that meeting, Mr. Comey began talking to his advisers about announcing the end of the Clinton investigation himself, according to a former official.“When you looked at the totality of the situation, we were leaning toward: This is something that makes sense to be done alone,” said Mr. Steinbach, who would not confirm the existence of the Russian document.Former Justice Department officials are deeply skeptical of this account. If Mr. Comey believed that Ms. Lynch were compromised, they say, why did he not seek her recusal? Mr. Comey never raised this issue with Ms. Lynch or the deputy attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, former officials said.Mr. Comey’s defenders regard this as one of the untold stories of the Clinton investigation, one they say helps explain his decision-making. But former Justice Department officials say the F.B.I. never uncovered evidence tying Ms. Lynch to the document’s author, and are convinced that Mr. Comey wanted an excuse to put himself in the spotlight.As the Clinton investigation headed into its final months, there were two very different ideas about how the case would end. Ms. Lynch and her advisers thought a short statement would suffice, probably on behalf of both the Justice Department and the F.B.I.Mr. Comey was making his own plans.A chance encounter set those plans in motion.In late June, Ms. Lynch’s plane touched down at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport as part of her nationwide tour of police departments. Former President Bill Clinton was also in Phoenix that day, leaving from the same tarmac.Ms. Lynch’s staff loaded into vans, leaving the attorney general and her husband on board. Mr. Clinton’s Secret Service agents mingled with her security team. When the former president learned who was on the plane, his aides say, he asked to say hello.AdvertisementMr. Clinton’s aides say he intended only to greet Ms. Lynch as she disembarked. But Ms. Lynch later told colleagues that the message she received — relayed from one security team to another — was that Mr. Clinton wanted to come aboard, and she agreed.When Ms. Lynch’s staff members noticed Mr. Clinton boarding the plane, a press aide hurriedly called the Justice Department’s communications director, Melanie Newman, who said to break up the meeting immediately. A staff member rushed to stop it, but by the time the conversation ended, Mr. Clinton had been on the plane for about 20 minutes.Ms. Lynch said she would not step aside but would accept whatever career prosecutors and the F.B.I. recommended on the Clinton case — something she had planned to do all along.Mr. Comey never suggested that she recuse herself. But at that moment, he knew for sure that when there was something to say about the case, he alone would say it.Two days later, on the morning of July 5, Mr. Comey called Ms. Lynch to say that he was about to hold a news conference. He did not tell her what he planned to say, and Ms. Lynch did not demand to know.On short notice, the F.B.I. summoned reporters to its headquarters for the briefing.A few blocks away, Mrs. Clinton was about to give a speech. At her campaign offices in Brooklyn, staff members hurried in front of televisions. And at the Justice Department and the F.B.I., prosecutors and agents watched anxiously.Advertisement“We were very much aware what was about to happen,” said Mr. Steinbach, who had taken over as the F.B.I.’s top national security official earlier that year. “This was going to be hotly contested.”With a black binder in hand, Mr. Comey walked into a large room on the ground floor of the F.B.I.’s headquarters. Standing in front of two American flags and two royal-blue F.B.I. flags, he read from a script.He said the F.B.I. had reviewed 30,000 emails and discovered 110 that contained classified information. He said computer hackers may have compromised Mrs. Clinton’s emails. And he criticized the State Department’s lax security culture and Mrs. Clinton directly.“Any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton’s position” should have known better, Mr. Comey said. He called her “extremely careless.”The criticism was so blistering that it sounded as if he were recommending criminal charges. Only in the final two minutes did Mr. Comey say that “no charges are appropriate in this case.”The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said on Tuesday that the agency was not recommending charging Hillary Clinton in her use of a private email server while secretary of state.The script had been edited and revised several times, former officials said. Mr. Strzok, Mr. Steinbach, lawyers and others debated every phrase. Speaking so openly about a closed case is rare, and the decision to do so was not unanimous, officials said. But the team ultimately agreed that there was an obligation to inform American voters.“We didn’t want anyone to say, ‘If I just knew that, I wouldn’t have voted that way,’” Mr. Steinbach said. “You can argue that’s not the F.B.I.’s job, but there was no playbook for this. This is somebody who’s going to be president of the United States.”Mr. Comey’s criticism — his description of her carelessness — was the most controversial part of the speech. Agents and prosecutors have been reprimanded for injecting their legal conclusions with personal opinions. But those close to Mr. Comey say he has no regrets.AdvertisementBy scolding Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Comey was speaking not only to voters but to his own agents. While they agreed that Mrs. Clinton should not face charges, many viewed her conduct as inexcusable. Mr. Comey’s remarks made clear that the F.B.I. did not approve.Former agents and others close to Mr. Comey acknowledge that his reproach was also intended to insulate the F.B.I. from Republican criticism that it was too lenient toward a Democrat.At the Justice Department, frustrated prosecutors said Mr. Comey should have consulted with them first. Mrs. Clinton’s supporters said that Mr. Comey’s condemnations seemed to make an oblique case for charging her, undermining the effect of his decision.“He came up with a Rube Goldberg-type solution that caused him more problems than if he had just played it straight,” said Brian Fallon, the Clinton campaign press secretary and a former Justice Department spokesman.Furious Republicans saw the legal cloud over Mrs. Clinton lifting and tore into Mr. Comey.In the days after the announcement, Mr. Comey and Ms. Lynch each testified before Congress, with different results. Neither the F.B.I. nor the Justice Department normally gives Congress a fact-by-fact recounting of its investigations, and Ms. Lynch spent five hours avoiding doing so.“I know that this is a frustrating exercise for you,” she told the House Judiciary Committee.Mr. Comey discussed his decision to close the investigation and renewed his criticism of Mrs. Clinton.By midsummer, as Mrs. Clinton was about to accept her party’s nomination for president, the F.B.I. director had seemingly succeeded in everything he had set out to do. The investigation was over well before the election. He had explained his decision to the public.And with both parties angry at him, he had proved yet again that he was willing to speak his mind, regardless of the blowback. He seemed to have safely piloted the F.B.I. through the storm of a presidential election.AdvertisementBut as Mr. Comey moved past one tumultuous investigation, another was about to heat up.Days after Mr. Comey’s news conference, Carter Page, an American businessman, gave a speech in Moscow criticizing American foreign policy. Such a trip would typically be unremarkable, but Mr. Page had previously been under F.B.I. scrutiny years earlier, as he was believed to have been marked for recruitment by Russian spies. And he was now a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump.Mr. Page has not said whom he met during his July visit to Moscow, describing them as “mostly scholars.” But the F.B.I. took notice. Mr. Page later traveled to Moscow again, raising new concerns among counterintelligence agents. A former senior American intelligence official said that Mr. Page met with a suspected intelligence officer on one of those trips and there was information that the Russians were still very interested in recruiting him.Later that month, the website WikiLeaks began releasing hacked emails from the D.N.C. Roger J. Stone Jr., another Trump adviser, boasted publicly about his contact with WikiLeaks and suggested he had inside knowledge about forthcoming leaks. And Mr. Trump himself fueled the F.B.I.’s suspicions, showering Mr. Putin with praise and calling for more hacking of Mrs. Clinton’s emails.“Russia, if you’re listening,” he said, “I hope you’ll be able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation into possible collusion between members of Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russian operatives. Besides Mr. Comey and a small team of agents, officials said, only a dozen or so people at the F.B.I. knew about the investigation. Mr. Strzok, just days removed from the Clinton case, was selected to supervise it.It was a worrisome time at the F.B.I. Agents saw increased activity by Russian intelligence officers in the United States, and a former senior American intelligence official said there were attempts by Russian intelligence officers to talk to people involved in the campaign. Russian hackers had also been detected trying to break into voter registration systems, and intelligence intercepts indicated some sort of plan to interfere with the election.In late August, Mr. Comey and his deputies were briefed on a provocative set of documents about purported dealings between shadowy Russian figures and Mr. Trump’s campaign. One report, filled with references to secret meetings, spoke ominously of Mr. Trump’s “compromising relationship with the Kremlin” and threats of “blackmail.”The reports came from a former British intelligence agent named Christopher Steele, who was working as a private investigator hired by a firm working for a Trump opponent. He provided the documents to an F.B.I. contact in Europe on the same day as Mr. Comey’s news conference about Mrs. Clinton. It took weeks for this information to land with Mr. Strzok and his team.Mr. Steele had been a covert agent for MI6 in Moscow, maintained deep ties with Russians and worked with the F.B.I., but his claims were largely unverified. It was increasingly clear at the F.B.I. that Russia was trying to interfere with the election.As the F.B.I. plunged deeper into that investigation, Mr. Comey became convinced that the American public needed to understand the scope of the foreign interference and be “inoculated” against it.AdvertisementHe proposed writing an op-ed piece to appear in The Times or The Washington Post, and showed the White House a draft his staff had prepared, according to two former officials. (After the Times story was published online on Saturday, a former White House official said the text of the op-ed had not been given to the White House.) The op-ed did not mention the investigation of the Trump campaign, but it laid out how Russia was trying to undermine the vote.The president replied that going public would play right into Russia’s hands by sowing doubts about the election’s legitimacy. Mr. Trump was already saying the system was “rigged,” and if the Obama administration accused Russia of interference, Republicans could accuse the White House of stoking national security fears to help Mrs. Clinton.Mr. Comey argued that he had unique credibility to call out the Russians and avoid that criticism. After all, he said, he had just chastised Mrs. Clinton at his news conference.The White House decided it would be odd for Mr. Comey to make such an accusation on his own, in a newspaper, before American security agencies had produced a formal intelligence assessment. The op-ed idea was quashed. When the administration had something to say about Russia, it would do so in one voice, through the proper channels.But John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, was so concerned about the Russian threat that he gave an unusual private briefing in the late summer to Harry Reid, then the Senate Democratic leader.Top congressional officials had already received briefings on Russia’s meddling, but the one for Mr. Reid appears to have gone further. In a public letter to Mr. Comey several weeks later, Mr. Reid said that “it has become clear that you possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government — a foreign interest openly hostile to the United States.”Mr. Comey knew the investigation of the Trump campaign was just underway, and keeping with policy, he said nothing about it.AdvertisementMr. Reid’s letter sparked frenzied speculation about what the F.B.I. was doing. At a congressional hearing in September, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, pressed Mr. Comey for an explanation, citing his willingness to give details about his investigation of Mrs. Clinton.“After you investigated Secretary Clinton, you made a decision to explain publicly who you interviewed and why,” Mr. Nadler said. “You also disclosed documents, including those from those interviews. Why shouldn’t the American people have the same level of information about your investigation with those associated with Mr. Trump?”But Mr. Comey never considered disclosing the case. Doing so, he believed, would have undermined an active investigation and cast public suspicion on people the F.B.I. could not be sure were implicated.“I’m not confirming that we’re investigating people associated with Mr. Trump,” Mr. Comey said to Mr. Nadler. “In the matter of the email investigation, it was our judgment — my judgment and the rest of the F.B.I.’s judgment — that those were exceptional circumstances.”Even in classified briefings with House and Senate intelligence committee members, Mr. Comey repeatedly declined to answer questions about whether there was an investigation of the Trump campaign.To Mr. Comey’s allies, the two investigations were totally different. One was closed when he spoke about it. The other was continuing, highly classified and in its earliest stages. Much of the debate over Mr. Comey’s actions over the last seven months can be distilled into whether people make that same distinction.Just a few weeks later, in late September, Mr. Steele, the former British agent, finally heard back from his contact at the F.B.I. It had been months, but the agency wanted to see the material he had collected “right away,” according to a person with knowledge of the conversation. What prompted this message remains unclear.Mr. Steele met his F.B.I. contact in Rome in early October, bringing a stack of new intelligence reports. One, dated Sept. 14, said that Mr. Putin was facing “fallout” over his apparent involvement in the D.N.C. hack and was receiving “conflicting advice” on what to do.AdvertisementThe agent said that if Mr. Steele could get solid corroboration of his reports, the F.B.I. would pay him $50,000 for his efforts, according to two people familiar with the offer. Ultimately, he was not paid.Around the same time, the F.B.I. began examining a mysterious data connection between Alfa Bank, one of Russia’s biggest, and a Trump Organization email server. Some private computer scientists said it could represent a secret link between the Trump Organization and Moscow.Agents concluded that the computer activity, while odd, probably did not represent a covert channel.But by fall, the gravity of the Russian effort to affect the presidential election had become clear.The D.N.C. hack and others like it had once appeared to be standard Russian tactics to tarnish a Western democracy. After the WikiLeaks disclosures and subsequent leaks by a Russian group using the name DCLeaks, agents and analysts began to realize that Moscow was not just meddling. It was trying to tip the election away from Mrs. Clinton and toward Mr. Trump.Mr. Comey and other senior administration officials met twice in the White House Situation Room in early October to again discuss a public statement about Russian meddling. But the roles were reversed: Susan Rice, the national security adviser, wanted to move ahead. Mr. Comey was less interested in being involved.At their second meeting, Mr. Comey argued that it would look too political for the F.B.I. to comment so close to the election, according to several people in attendance. Officials in the room felt whiplashed. Two months earlier, Mr. Comey had been willing to put his name on a newspaper article; now he was refusing to sign on to an official assessment of the intelligence community.Mr. Comey said that in the intervening time, Russian meddling had become the subject of news stories and a topic of national discussion. He felt it was no longer necessary for him to speak publicly about it. So when Jeh Johnson, the Homeland Security secretary, and James R. Clapper Jr., the national intelligence director, accused “Russia’s senior-most officials” on Oct. 7 of a cyber operation to disrupt the election, the F.B.I. was conspicuously silent.That night, WikiLeaks began posting thousands of hacked emails from another source: the private email account of John D. Podesta, chairman of the Clinton campaign.The emails included embarrassing messages between campaign staff members and excerpts from Mrs. Clinton’s speeches to Wall Street. The disclosure further convinced the F.B.I. that it had initially misread Russia’s intentions.AdvertisementTwo days later, Mr. Podesta heard from the F.B.I. for the first time, he said in an interview.“You may be aware that your emails have been hacked,” an agent told him.Mr. Podesta laughed. The same agency that had so thoroughly investigated Mrs. Clinton, he said, seemed painfully slow at responding to Russian hacking.“Yes,” he answered. “I’m aware.”The Daily Mail, a British tabloid, was first with the salacious story: Anthony D. Weiner, the former New York congressman, had exchanged sexually charged messages with a 15-year-old girl.The article, appearing in late September, raised the possibility that Mr. Weiner had violated child pornography laws. Within days, prosecutors in Manhattan sought a search warrant for Mr. Weiner’s computer.Even with his notoriety, this would have had little impact on national politics but for one coincidence. Mr. Weiner’s wife, Huma Abedin, was one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest confidantes, and had used an email account on her server.F.B.I. agents in New York seized Mr. Weiner’s laptop in early October. The investigation was just one of many in the New York office and was not treated with great urgency, officials said. Further slowing the investigation, the F.B.I. software used to catalog the computer files kept crashing.Eventually, investigators realized that they had hundreds of thousands of emails, many of which belonged to Ms. Abedin and had been backed up to her husband’s computer.Neither Mr. Comey nor Ms. Lynch was concerned. Agents had discovered devices before in the Clinton investigation (old cellphones, for example) that turned up no new evidence.Then, agents in New York who were searching image files on Mr. Weiner’s computer discovered a State Department document containing the initials H.R.C. — Hillary Rodham Clinton. They found messages linked to Mrs. Clinton’s home server.And they made another surprising discovery: evidence that some of the emails had moved through Mrs. Clinton’s old BlackBerry server, the one she used before moving to her home server. If Mrs. Clinton had intended to conceal something, agents had always believed, the evidence might be in those emails. But reading them would require another search warrant, essentially reopening the Clinton investigation.The election was two weeks away.Mr. Comey learned of the Clinton emails on the evening of Oct. 26 and gathered his team the next morning to discuss the development.Seeking a new warrant was an easy decision. He had a thornier issue on his mind.Back in July, he told Congress that the Clinton investigation was closed. What was his obligation, he asked, to acknowledge that this was no longer true?It was a perilous idea. It would push the F.B.I. back into the political arena, weeks after refusing to confirm the active investigation of the Trump campaign and declining to accuse Russia of hacking.The question consumed hours of conference calls and meetings. Agents felt they had two options: Tell Congress about the search, which everyone acknowledged would create a political furor, or keep it quiet, which followed policy and tradition but carried its own risk, especially if the F.B.I. found new evidence in the emails.“In my mind at the time, Clinton is likely to win,” Mr. Steinbach said. “It’s pretty apparent. So what happens after the election, in November or December? How do we say to the American public: ‘Hey, we found some things that might be problematic. But we didn’t tell you about it before you voted’? The damage to our organization would have been irreparable.”Conservative news outlets had already branded Mr. Comey a Clinton toady. That same week, the cover of National Review featured a story on “James Comey’s Dereliction,” and a cartoon of a hapless Mr. Comey shrugging as Mrs. Clinton smashed her laptop with a sledgehammer.The assumption was that the email review would take many weeks or months. “If we thought we could be done in a week,” Mr. Steinbach said, “we wouldn’t say anything.”The spirited debate continued when Mr. Comey reassembled his team later that day. F.B.I. lawyers raised concerns, former officials said. But in the end, Mr. Comey said he felt obligated to tell Congress.“I went back and forth, changing my mind several times,” Mr. Steinbach recalled. “Ultimately, it was the right call.”That afternoon, Mr. Comey’s chief of staff called the office of Ms. Yates, the deputy attorney general, and revealed the plan.Ms. Lynch understood Mr. Comey’s predicament, but not his hurry. In a series of phone calls, her aides told Mr. Comey’s deputies that there was no need to tell Congress anything until agents knew what the emails contained.Either Ms. Lynch or Ms. Yates could have ordered Mr. Comey not to send the letter, but their aides argued against it. If Ms. Lynch issued the order and Mr. Comey obeyed, she risked the same fate that Mr. Comey feared: accusations of political interference and favoritism by a Democratic attorney general.If Mr. Comey disregarded her order and sent the letter — a real possibility, her aides thought — it would be an act of insubordination that would force her to consider firing him, aggravating the situation.In the letter, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said that new emails had surfaced in a case unrelated to the closed investigation into whether Hillary Clinton or her aides had mishandled classified information, and that the messages “appear to be pertinent to the investigation.”So the debate ended at the staff level, with the Justice Department imploring the F.B.I. to follow protocol and stay out of the campaign’s final days. Ms. Lynch never called Mr. Comey herself.The Clinton team was outraged. Even at the F.B.I., agents who supported their high-profile director were stunned. They knew the letter would call into question the F.B.I.’s political independence.Mr. Trump immediately mentioned it on the campaign trail. “As you might have heard,” Mr. Trump told supporters in Maine, “earlier today, the F.B.I. … ” The crowd interrupted with a roar. Everyone had heard.“This changes everything,” Mr. Trump said.Mr. Comey explained in an email to his agents that Congress needed to be notified. “It would be misleading to the American people were we not to supplement the record,” he wrote.But many agents were not satisfied.At the Justice Department, career prosecutors and political appointees privately criticized not only Mr. Comey for sending the letter but also Ms. Lynch and Ms. Yates for not stopping him. Many saw the letter as the logical result of years of not reining him in.Mr. Comey told Congress that he had no idea how long the email review would take, but Ms. Lynch promised every resource needed to complete it before Election Day.At the F.B.I., the Clinton investigative team was reassembled, and the Justice Department obtained a warrant to read emails to or from Mrs. Clinton during her time at the State Department. As it turned out, only about 50,000 emails met those criteria, far fewer than anticipated, officials said, and the F.B.I. had already seen many of them.At a Justice Department memorial for Mr. Margolis, organizers removed all the chairs from the stage, avoiding the awkward scene of Mr. Comey sitting beside some of his sharpest critics.Jamie S. Gorelick, a deputy attorney general during the Clinton administration, eulogized Mr. Margolis for unfailingly following the rules, even when facing unpopular options. Audience members heard it as a veiled critique of both Mr. Comey and Ms. Lynch.On Nov. 5, three days before Election Day, Mr. Strzok and his team had 3,000 emails left to review. That night, they ordered pizza and dug in. At about 2 a.m., Mr. Strzok wrote an email to Mr. Comey and scheduled it to send at 6 a.m. They were finished.A few hours later, Mr. Strzok and his team were back in Mr. Comey’s conference room for a final briefing: Only about 3,000 emails had been potentially work-related. A dozen or so email chains contained classified information, but the F.B.I. had already seen it.And agents had found no emails from the BlackBerry server during the crucial period when Mrs. Clinton was at the State Department.Nothing had changed what Mr. Comey had said in July.That conclusion was met with a mixture of relief and angst. Everyone at the meeting knew that the question would quickly turn to whether Mr. Comey’s letter had been necessary.That afternoon, Mr. Comey sent a second letter to Congress. “Based on our review,” he wrote, “we have not changed our conclusions.”Mr. Comey did not vote on Election Day, records show, the first time he skipped a national election, according to friends. But the director of the F.B.I. was a central story line on every television station as Mr. Trump swept to an upset victory.Many factors explained Mr. Trump’s success, but Mrs. Clinton blamed just one. “Our analysis is that Comey’s letter — raising doubts that were groundless, baseless, proven to be — stopped our momentum,” she told donors a few days after the election. She pointed to polling data showing that late-deciding voters chose Mr. Trump in unusually large numbers.Even many Democrats believe that this analysis ignores other factors, but at the F.B.I., the accusation stung. Agents are used to criticism and second-guessing. Rarely has the agency been accused of political favoritism or, worse, tipping an election.For all the attention on Mrs. Clinton’s emails, history is likely to see Russian influence as the more significant story of the 2016 election. Questions about Russian meddling and possible collusion have marred Mr. Trump’s first 100 days in the White House, cost him his national security adviser and triggered two congressional investigations. Despite Mr. Trump’s assertions that “Russia is fake news,” the White House has been unable to escape its shadow.Mr. Comey has told friends that he has no regrets, about either the July news conference or the October letter or his handling of the Russia investigation. Confidants like Mr. Richman say he was constrained by circumstance while “navigating waters in which every move has political consequences.”But officials and others close to him also acknowledge that Mr. Comey has been changed by the tumultuous year.Early on Saturday, March 4, the president accused Mr. Obama on Twitter of illegally wiretapping Trump Tower in Manhattan. Mr. Comey believed the government should forcefully denounce that claim. But this time he took a different approach. He asked the Justice Department to correct the record. When officials there refused, Mr. Comey followed orders and said nothing publicly.James B. Comey said that the agency is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Regarding President Trump’s tweets about alleged wiretapping by the Obama administration, Mr. Comey said the agency had “no information that supports those tweets.”Mr. Richman sees no conflict, but rather “a consistent pattern of someone trying to act with independence and integrity, but within established channels.”“His approach to the Russia investigation fits this pattern,” he added.But perhaps the most telling sign that Mr. Comey may have had enough of being Washington’s Lone Ranger occurred last month before the House Intelligence Committee.Early in the hearing, Mr. Comey acknowledged for the first time what had been widely reported: The F.B.I. was investigating members of the Trump campaign for possible collusion with Russia.Yet the independent-minded F.B.I. director struck a collaborative tone. “I have been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm,” he began, ushering in the next phase of his extraordinary moment in national politics.Mr. Comey was still in the spotlight, but no longer alone.Emily Baumgaertner and Mark Landler contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research.Go to Home Page »