Advertisement
WASHINGTON — For the second time this term, the Supreme Court heard arguments on Wednesday about whether voting maps can be so distorted by politics that they violate the Constitution.
As they had when an earlier case was argued in October, many of the justices agreed that partisan gerrymandering is a serious problem that disfigures democracy. But there was no indication on Wednesday that they had come to an agreement about whether the courts can address the problem.
“It seems like a pretty clear violation of the Constitution in some form to have deliberate, extreme gerrymandering,” Justice Stephen G. Breyer said. “But is there a practical remedy that won’t get judges involved in dozens and dozens and dozens of very important political decisions?”
Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said that redistricting conducted by politicians was necessarily political. “Hasn’t this court said time and again you can’t take all consideration of partisan advantage out of districting?” he asked.
Advertisement
Were the Supreme Court to forbid taking account of politics in drawing voting maps, he said, “I really don’t see how any legislature will ever be able to redistrict.”
Advertisement
The justices largely agreed that the oddly shaped Maryland congressional district at issue, drawn by Democrats in the Legislature, was an extreme example of distasteful political gamesmanship.
“It doesn’t seem to have any internal logic,” Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said of the district, which stretches from northwestern Maryland to the Washington suburbs. He added that the district had been redrawn in a way “that prefers one party over another.”
Justice Elena Kagan said it sometimes might be hard to tell when politics played too large a role, but she said that was not a problem here. “However much you think is too much,” she said, “this case is too much.”
But it was not at all clear that the court was prepared to say the Constitution may place limits on extreme partisan gerrymandering, where the party in power draws voting districts to give itself an outsize advantage in future elections.
The Supreme Court has never struck down a voting district as an unconstitutional partisan gerrymander. A ruling allowing such challenges could revolutionize American politics.
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who probably holds the crucial vote in both cases, returned to a theme he had pursued in the arguments in the Wisconsin case, asking whether a law that required partisan gerrymandering in so many words would violate the Constitution.
Advertisement
Steven M. Sullivan, Maryland’s solicitor general, said it would.
Justice Kennedy asked, “How is this case different?” Mr. Sullivan said the redistricting law did not expressly call for a partisan advantage.
Justice Kennedy was not satisfied. “So if you hide the evidence of what you’re doing, then you’re going to prevail?” he asked.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If there was a hint about where the court was headed in the Wisconsin case, it came from Justice Breyer, who suggested that the court schedule a new round of arguments in both cases, along with one from North Carolina, in the term that will start in October. His question suggested that at least some of the challengers could not demonstrate that they had suffered the sort of direct injury that gave them standing to sue.
“What would you think,” Justice Breyer asked, “of taking the three cases and setting them for re-argument on the question of standing and there we’d have all three variations in front of us?” he asked a lawyer for the challengers, Michael B. Kimberly. But Justice Breyer’s real audience seemed to be his colleagues, none of whom spoke up in support of the proposal.
Justice Breyer, who seems ready to allow constitutional challenges based on partisan gerrymandering, probably would not have made the suggestion had his views prevailed when the justices took their preliminary vote in the Wisconsin case in October.
Several justices said the Maryland case was plagued by procedural and practical problems.
Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg said there was little reason for the court to rule now because its decision would come too late to affect the 2018 elections.
“It’s much too late, even if you were successful, for there to be any change for the 2018 election,” Justice Ginsburg told Mr. Kimberly. Justice Kennedy seemed to agree. Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the challengers had waited too long to file suit.
Mr. Kimberly, representing the plaintiffs, argued that Democratic state lawmakers there had redrawn a district in northwestern Maryland to retaliate against citizens who supported its longtime incumbent, Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, a Republican. That retaliation, he said, violated the First Amendment by diluting their voting power in a district that had been controlled by Republicans.
Advertisement
Mr. Bartlett had won his 2010 race by a margin of 28 percentage points. In 2012, he lost to Representative John Delaney, a Democrat, by a 21-point margin.
Several justices said the evidence of extreme partisan gerrymandering was strong.
“People were very upfront about what they were trying to do here, which was to create another Democratic district,” Justice Kagan said. “And they did that.”
In the past, some justices have said the court should stay out of such political disputes. Others have said partisan gerrymanders may violate the Constitution.
Justice Kennedy has taken a middle position, leaving the door to such challenges open a crack, though he has never voted to sustain one.
“The widespread nature of gerrymandering in modern politics is matched by the almost universal absence of those who will defend its negative effect on our democracy,” Judge Niemeyer said. “Indeed, both Democrats and Republicans have decried it when wielded by their opponents but nonetheless continue to gerrymander in their own self-interest when given the opportunity.”
“The problem is cancerous,” he wrote, “undermining the fundamental tenets of our form of democracy.”
Go to Home Page »
Advertisement
Supported by
In the wake of the presidential election, we’ve all been asking simplistic questions about how Donald Trump won. Was it economics? Was it racism? Was it misogyny? Did it come down to identity? We know that it can’t have been just one thing, and that President Trump’s triumph was a concoction of many things. Nonetheless, several factors came together in a peculiar way, with serious electoral consequences. Millions of white voters began to see themselves more openly not as white supremacists but as white identified.
It is no secret that the president has capitalized on the increasing salience of race and ethnicity in recent years. The furious reaction to many different historical and cultural developments — mass immigration; the success of the civil rights and women’s rights movements; the election and re-election of a black president; and the approaching end of white majority status in the United States — has created a political environment ripe for the growth of white identity politics.
When the dominant status of whites relative to racial and ethnic minorities is secure and unchallenged, white identity likely remains dormant. When whites perceive their group’s dominant status is threatened or their group is unfairly disadvantaged, however, their racial identity may become salient and politically relevant.
The whites marching on Charlottesville were only a small segment of a much larger population for whom the politics of white identity resonates. The vast majority of white Americans who feel threatened by the country’s growing racial and ethnic diversity are not members of the KKK or neo-Nazis. They are much greater in number, and far more mainstream, than the white supremacists who protested in Virginia over the weekend.
The survey, they write,
asked four questions that captured dimensions of white identity: the importance of white identity, how much whites are being discriminated against, the likelihood that whites are losing jobs to nonwhites, and the importance of whites working together to change laws unfair to whites. We combined those questions into a scale capturing the strength of white identity and found that it was strongly related to Republicans’ support for Donald Trump.
On the basis of that scale, the authors assembled the data illustrated by the accompanying chart, which shows that fewer than five percent of white Republicans who indicated that their racial identity was of little importance supported Trump. Among those who said their identity as whites was extremely important to them, Trump’s support reached 81 percent.
Both white racial identity and beliefs that whites are treated unfairly are powerful predictors of support for Donald Trump in the Republican primaries.
Once Trump secured this “white identifier” base — making him competitive in a multicandidate field — he was positioned to expand his traction among traditional Republicans, including a decisive majority of those who backed Mitt Romney, John McCain and George W. Bush.
What are the views of “white identifiers”?
According to Jardina, these voters
are more likely to think that the growth of racial or ethnic groups in the United States that are not white is having a negative effect on American culture.
And they are
much more likely to rank illegal immigration the most important issue facing the U.S. today, relative to the budget deficit, health care, the economy, unemployment, outsourcing of jobs to other countries, abortion, same-sex marriage, education, gun control, the environment or terrorism.
Perhaps most important, Jardina found that white identifiers are
an aggrieved group. They are more likely to agree that American society owes white people a better chance in life than they currently have. And white identifiers would like many of the same benefits of identity politics that they believe other groups enjoy.
In other words, most — though by no means all — white identifiers appear to be driven as much by anger at their sense of lost status as by their animosity toward other groups, although these two feelings are clearly linked.
Trump effect combined with eight years of racialized politics under President Obama, means that racial attitudes are now more closely aligned with white Americans’ partisan preferences than they have been at any time in the history of polling.
Just over a decade ago, political scientists were discounting the significance of white identity in elections.
whites’ whiteness is usually likely to be no more noteworthy to them than is breathing the air around them. White group consciousness is therefore not likely to be a major force in whites’ political attitudes today.
Wong and Cho went on, however, to make what turned out to be a crucially important point: that since
white identity is indeed unstable but easily triggered, the danger is that a demagogue could influence the salience of these identities to promote negative outgroup attitudes, link racial identification more strongly to policy preferences, and exacerbate group conflict.
Podhoretz recognizes Trump’s adamant refusal to alienate his most dogged backers:
If there’s one thing politicians can feel in their marrow, even a non-pol pol like Trump, it’s who is in their base and what it is that binds the base to them
and, even more important,
the nucleus — the very heart of a base, the root of the root of support.
For years, Podhoretz writes, Trump operated below the radar, cultivating a constituency of “disaffected Americans entirely on the margins of American life, politically and culturally and organizationally.”
“This has been happening for a while, which is why Trump was able to leverage white identity in 2016,” she wrote. “Trump went where no other GOP primary candidate would go even though they all knew those voters were there.”
In “Identity Crisis,” Sides, Tesler and Vavreck write that Trump’s primary campaign
became a vehicle for a different kind of identity politics — oriented around white Americans’ feelings of marginalization in an increasingly diverse America.
The three authors describe a rapidly “growing sense of white victimhood.” They cite surveys showing that among Republicans, the perception of discrimination against whites grew from 38 percent in 2011-12 to 47 percent in January 2016.
Trump, according to Sides, Tesler and Vavreck, was
unusual in how he talked about race. Candidates have traditionally used implicit racial appeals to win over voters without appearing overtly prejudiced. And, as much political science research has shown, these appeals have often succeeded in activating support among voters with less favorable views of racial minorities. But Trump talked about issues related to race and ethnicity in explicit terms.
probably because his supporters think that whites and Christians are the most oppressed groups of people in the country.
Trump has mobilized the white identity electorate, and in doing so has put the tenuous American commitment to racial and ethnic egalitarianism on the line. And Trump has been captured by the success of his own demagoguery. He surged ahead of his Republican competitors for the nomination when he threw matches on the kindling and now, under siege, his only strategy for survival is to pour gasoline on the flames.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
The rush to enact the tax bill was designed to mask — as a break for the middle class — what is in fact a $1.4 trillion package of benefits for key donors and lobbyists, the richest members of Congress, President Trump, his family and other families like his.
The authors cite a wide range of specific flaws, but their main argument is that the measure is gravely deficient at its core:
The most serious structural problems with the bill are unavoidable outcomes of Congress’s choice to preference certain taxpayers and activities while disfavoring others — and for no discernible policy rationale. These haphazard lines are fundamentally unfair and inefficient, and invite tax planning by sophisticated taxpayers to get within the preferred categories.
Glogower, Kamin, Kysar, and Shanske argue that some of the most egregious loopholes and schemes permitted by the legislation are that individual taxpayers
will be able to shield their labor income from tax by simply setting up a corporation and having their income accrue in the form of corporate profits. As a result, income that would have been taxed at the high individual rates is instead taxed at the low corporate rate.
Second, the legislation creates a huge incentive for anyone in a position to do so to change his or her status from employee to “independent contractor or a partner in a firm. The game is clear: Don’t be an employee, instead be an independent contractor or partner in a firm.” The ability to make this shift is available primarily to the well-paid.
The legislation, according to Glogower and his colleagues, also fails to present a coherent rationale:
the fundamental problem is the lack of any underlying logic in deciding who benefits from the pass-through deductions, and who does not. Independent contractors and partners benefit, but not employees. Why? An owner of real estate through a REIT benefits, but not the doctor in the building. Why? An architect benefits in some ways that a lawyer does not. And so on.
The bill encourages tax evasion. Glogower and his colleagues cite
opportunities to use rate differentials and ill-considered transitions to engage in transactions that serve to basically pump money out of the Treasury and into the pockets of well-advised taxpayers.
To provide an example, they use a company that purchased equipment under existing law, which provides them with tax breaks on the cost spread out over the years in a depreciation schedule. The new law allows companies to immediately write off the full cost of buying equipment, known as expensing.
“So,” the authors ask, “what does that mean?”
It means that old property can still get the benefit of expensing, but only if it is sold to another party. If the original owner holds it, they have to depreciate according to the old rules; if they sell it to another party, then suddenly the full cost is eligible for expensing, and the net effect is an immediate deduction of the existing tax basis of the asset. The parties can split the resulting surplus. It appears that the buyer of the asset could even lease it back to the existing owner, so that the property doesn’t even have to go anywhere.
I emailed some of the authors of this report for their individual thoughts.
Mitchell Kane, a law professor at N.Y.U., wrote in response that the bill will
create new incentives to shift tangible assets (and jobs) abroad. Given President Trump’s relentless message about U.S. jobs, it is incomprehensible to me that we are about to pass something that has this effect without any kind of meaningful discussion of the issue.
He noted that
lower and middle-income families, who are especially dependent upon inflation-indexed deductions, credits, and bracket thresholds, will feel the impact increasingly as time goes on.
In the first year, 2018, the changed inflation rate raises a relatively modest $31.5 billion but it grows every year, reaching $37 billion in 2027. “To be sure,” Hemel wrote, “this affects everyone to some degree, but most of the burden is paid for by families in the bottom four quintiles.”
In the long term, Hemel argued,
this is a very subtle way to increase taxes on the lower and middle classes and then use those revenues to pay for a massive tax cut for corporations.
This full-speed-ahead strategy simultaneously constrained the ability of the press to explore the special interest provisions buried in the legislation.
A tax expert who insisted on anonymity in order to protect client confidentiality, emailed me his critique of the bill:
(1) The corporate rate reduction is permanent, for individuals only temporary. Completely obnoxious. In effect the money “saved” within the 10 year budget window by making those individual cuts temporary helped to underwrite the cost of making the corporate/pass though side permanent
(2) Carried interest provision. When Trump was careening around in his populist candidate mode, he promised to end it. Here is one campaign promise that he “somehow” failed to redeem when the clear and available chance presented itself.
(3) Restriction on state and C local tax deduction — consciously vindictive imposition of double taxation on citizens of certain Democratic states; corporations and pass through businesses, the darlings of the Republicans, still get to deduct those very same taxes in full.
(4) Expanding the standard deduction but financing the cost of so doing by repealing the personal exemptions is a bit of a bait and switch maneuver. Some people might be worse off.
(5) In a bill in which 100s of billions of dollars were sloshing around to provide steep tax cuts for already wealthy and highly prosperous corporations and pass through businesses, the Republicans could only find the will to raise the refundable portion of the child care tax credit from $1000 to $1400. Rubio wanted it to be raised to $2000 and his Republican brethren refused to even meet him halfway. Pitiful.
(6) Deduction for extraordinary medical expenses — retention of this deduction did not even get the five-year sunset window applied to all the other individual tax provisions, two years only. Vicious.
(7) Pass through business taxation — the bill is a massive tax gift to some of the wealthiest people in the country, who are conducting business operations in non-corporate form or are investors in same.
What amounted to three major pieces of legislation were approved by the full House and the Senate Finance Committee, “two weeks after the bill was unveiled, without a single hearing on the 400-plus-page legislation,” as Thomas Kaplan and Alan Rappeport put it in The Times.
One of our jobs is to flesh out competing views with such seriousness and respect that we should be mitigating, not exacerbating, the polarization that does exist ...
Good teachers don’t shut down debate; they try to model Socratic seriousness by putting the best possible construction on arguments, even — and especially — if one doesn’t hold those positions.
for a return to regular order, letting committees of jurisdiction do the principal work of crafting legislation and letting the full Senate debate and amend their efforts. We won’t settle all our differences that way, but such an approach is more likely to make progress on the central problems confronting our constituents. We might not like the compromises regular order requires, but we can and must live with them if we are to find real and lasting solutions.
So far, however, only one Republican senator has suffered real costs for deciding to vote for the tax bill.
No way that Bob Corker is going to vote for a tax reform bill that I think in any way is going to add to the deficit. It’s not going to happen, never. It’s never going to happen. Never, never, ever.
This is the most passionate thing for me, period, that I work on. Not foreign policy. Not banking. It’s this deficit issue.
For Corker, this issue went way beyond routine politics: “Deficits matter,” he forcefully asserted. “They are a greater threat to us than North Korea or ISIS.”
In the end, after 11 years in the Senate, I know every bill we consider is imperfect and the question becomes is our country better off with or without this piece of legislation. I think we are better off with it.
All of this raises a basic question. How could nearly every Republican representative — and all 52 Republican senators — support the tax bill? The best answer may be the most cynical: because it benefits key leaders, their friends, their heirs and their donors.
After looking at the legislation in its entirety — its substance and the procedures used to get there — it is difficult to conclude that the motivations of its sponsors are either benevolent or somehow in the best interests of the country. More likely it is hypocrisy and venality mixed up into one awful bill.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
The former F.B.I. director was interviewed for “The Daily” podcast. Here are five takeaways from the conversation.
Supported by
Here are five takeaways from the interview.
It seemed like his decision to itemize his own shortcomings before recounting his role in the investigation of Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump over the past two years might be an acknowledgment that those flaws help explain his conduct. But Mr. Comey quickly rejected the idea that his ego had played a role in how he managed the investigation into Mr. Trump.
He conceded, instead, that it might have influenced how he treated the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s private email server — in particular his unusual news conference, in July 2016, condemning how she had handled classified government emails as “extremely careless.”
It was his own children, he said, who had told him that the news conference was flawed, because he dwelled for so long on Mrs. Clinton’s misdeeds, before finally — and suspensefully — announcing he would not charge her with any crime. They called that delayed delivery of the most important information “Seacresting.”
In their mind, he had acted like Ryan Seacrest, as host of “American Idol,” seemingly prepared to announce a singer’s elimination or victory, but first taking a long, unwanted commercial break. “I think that criticism is actually valid,” he told me. “The reason I associate it with ego is I think I thought I knew the right way to do it and in hindsight,” he said, “I don’t think I did.”
“I knew I was communicating with someone who might not tell the truth about it if it ever became an issue,” Mr. Comey said. From that point on, Mr. Comey decided to document his one-on-one interactions with the new president in case there was ever any question about what had transpired during such sessions.
“Normally I wasn’t even much of a note taker,” he said. “But here I thought given those factors that I would need a detailed account in the event I need to draw on it in the future.” Which, of course, is exactly what happened.
I asked Mr. Comey why, after his firing in May 2017, he had deliberately shared the contents of one of his memos with a reporter, in the hopes of producing news coverage that would alarm the public about Mr. Trump’s conduct and therefore prompt the appointment of a special counsel.
In his mind, Mr. Sessions would soon be recused from the Russia investigation, rendering him ineffectual, and Mr. Rosenstein had shown himself to be untrustworthy because of his role in firing Mr. Comey.
It was Mr. Rosenstein who had written a memo to the president laying out the reasons Mr. Comey should be fired. “I did not have confidence that it would be done in the right way,” Mr. Comey said.
“My plan was to stay,” Mr. Comey told me, when I asked if he wished he were still the director of the F.B.I. He might have eventually been fired over a different clash with Mr. Trump, he said. But as attacks on the F.B.I. have mounted, including from the president, Mr. Comey said, his desire to protect the agency has grown.
These days, he said, he tries to read about 20 pieces of mail a day from current and former F.B.I. agents, who write to him about their experience.
“I could only read them about 20 at a time before I got a pain in my chest from their sadness and my sadness of not being with them,” he said. “Reading about their grief, which reflects my grief, is the hardest part.”
During his book tour, Mr. Comey has described Mr. Trump as morally unfit for the office of the presidency — a profoundly damning judgment from a former director of the F.B.I. I wondered whether Mr. Comey feared that his comments risked further politicizing the bureau at a time when it is the subject of intense scrutiny.
“I worry a little bit,” he said. But his goal, he said, is to prompt a conversation that will ultimately benefit the F.B.I. and the country.
I asked what, exactly, that conversation is. “Most broadly,” he said, “I’d like to have a conversation about what are the values at the core of this country and about our expectations that our leaders reflect those values? And encourage people to rise above their partisan passions, their policy passions and realize that without that collection of values and without leaders who are tethered to those values and held accountable by us to those values, we’re lost.”
If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.
From your mobile device:
From a desktop or laptop:
Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.
On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:
Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
On Google Home:
You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Fashion has been largely avoiding the issue, but on Sunday night, Prabal Gurung addressed it head-on.
“I respect the solidarity of wearing black, but I don’t want to get to a place where women have to suppress their sense of self,” he said backstage before his show. “Where I am from” — Nepal — “color can be a show of strength, as well.”
Bright pink mandala-print scarves were swathed sari-style around ivory knits and fuchsia silk skirts; a grape puffer came topped with a sapphire fox collar; a sky-blue mandala sweater topped a blue sequined skirt with beaded fringe; and a cherry-red cashmere cable-knit dress was finished in a burst of degradé ostrich feathers. Though Mr. Gurung has a tendency to over-egg his clothes (there’s a lot going on in a lot of these looks), the point was generally well made.
Advertisement
A year ago during fashion week he ended his show with a parade of models in a variety of message tees that seemed addressed specifically to the policies of the new president (“I am an immigrant”; “The future is female”). He has been making something of a name for himself ever since as a public advocate; a designer willing to Instagram what he thinks. Sometimes his positions seemed better formed than his clothes, but this time, with a finale that saw the models emerge en masse clutching their own white roses, they met in the middle.
Still, over all it’s been an oddly apolitical fashion week. For a season occurring at a time when clothing has become a vehicle of public messaging in a way it rarely has before, the runways themselves have been strikingly silent. It makes the collections, pretty as they can be, lack a certain currency.
Advertisement
A choir clad entirely in white and brought together for one night only by the singer-songwriter Raphael Saadiq stood atop risers and began a soaring, emotive performance that began with “Everything’s Got to Get Better” and then ranged through Gil Scott-Heron’s “Home Is Where the Hatred Is,” Bruce Springsteen’s “Born in the U.S.A.” and Kendrick Lamar’s “Alright.” It was a fitting backdrop to the designer Kerby Jean-Raymond’s quietly calibrated ode to the black cowboy, the men he described as being an oft-ignored part of the history of the West, including James Beckwourth, an explorer and fur trader, and Bill Pickett, a rodeo star.
So there were oversize crisp white shirts and cropped cowboy versions. Short leather jackets with patchwork pockets and trousers billowing with pleats like chaps at the side, to create an hourglass silhouette for both men and women. Loose silk suiting with a medley of seams picked out in white topstitching. And a finale that introduced Mr. Jean-Raymond’s new collaboration with Reebok and included floor-sweeping coats and abstracted flag scarves, sweats palazzo-pant wide, and accessories emblazoned with the words “AS USA AS U.”
It was a rare bit of sloganeering in a season that has not been using its words too much. Less stident than soulful, it pretty much said it all.
Mr. Jean-Raymond has never been afraid of tackling big issues — his shows have addressed police brutality, the economic downturn and Bernie L. Madoff — but while this may have marginalized the designer in the past, it makes his work feel particularly relevant today. He deserves more recognition.
See More »
Go to Home Page »
Advertisement
Supported by
News from Washington dominated headlines and captured the world’s attention this year. Here’s a look at a handful of those stories, with reflections from the reporters who covered them.
It would be an understatement to say that 2017 was one of the most exciting years in American politics in decades.
January 28
A federal judge in Brooklyn came to the aid of scores of refugees and others who were trapped at airports across the United States after President Trump signed an executive order that sought to keep many foreigners from entering the country, leading to chaotic scenes worldwide.
At first I couldn’t find the lawyers. I walked back and forth, texting Julie Kornfeld from the International Refugee Assistance Project, “Where are you I’m at door 2.” She wrote back, “We r near arrivals.” I was so tired, I hadn’t even realized I was looking for them in the departures area.
The arrivals hall at Terminal 4 was eerily quiet. There was a woman selling Dunkin’ Donuts coffee, but the trays in the glass case were bare of food. It would be hours before the doughnuts and muffins arrived. There were a few drowsy passengers. And there was an active if exhausted legal team of three attorneys.
January 30
The acting attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, had ordered government lawyers not to defend in court Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration.
Shortly after 9, we walked into Upper Press, the suite of offices where the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, works. He was standing next to a desk where an assistant had her finger poised over a keyboard. Scanning the text on his iPhone one last time, he told the aide to hit “send.”
“We just fired the attorney general,” Mr. Spicer said matter-of-factly, turning to Maggie and me.
February 13
While at President Trump’s Florida club, the president and his aides coordinated their response to a North Korean missile test. They did not bother to retire to a secure location.
No sooner had I lifted fork to mouth than an email popped up on my phone: “URGENT 9:30 P.M. CALL TIME.” It was 9:27 p.m. The lid, evidently, was off.
I rushed to rejoin Mr. Trump’s press pool and we piled into S.U.V.s that raced to Mar-a-Lago. On the way, White House sources told me that the president had abruptly decided to join Mr. Abe in a public statement about a missile launch by North Korea that day. Earlier, Mr. Trump had refused to say a word about the test, but this was a president who had already developed a reputation for sudden reversals.
March 4
The United States has been trying to sabotage North Korea’s missile program. Mr. Trump must decide what to do next.
The launches were failing too often.
That was the topic of the conversation I was having one day late last spring with Bill Broad, one of The Times’s premier science writers. Just about every time the North Koreans tried to launch an advanced missile, it seemed to end up in the ocean seconds later. Maybe it was bad luck, we said to each other, or bad parts, or bad welding. After all, the North Koreans are not known for quality control. Or maybe something else was going on.
April 11
With crucial staff positions unfilled and no on-site first lady at the time, the White House had to try to organize the most elaborate and heavily scrutinized public event of the year.
I first became interested in the Easter Egg Roll after a colleague alerted me to another quiet drama unfolding on Twitter: The wood products manufacturer that makes the commemorative eggs had been using the platform to nudge Mr. Trump to submit an order for the Egg Roll before he missed the production deadline.
Intrigued, I began calling sources who might know something about the planning of the event. Many professed ignorance and even some alarm about whether Mr. Trump would hold the Easter Egg Roll at all; others told me plans were underway but the event would be scaled back — to about 20,000 attendees from nearly twice that many last year.
May 4
The House voted on a revised health care bill that would have repealed and replaced major parts of the Affordable Care Act.
Unlike in the verbal tally in the Senate, though, the House vote is displayed on four scoreboard-like panels inside the chamber. And the panels aren’t visible on C-SPAN. It was time to do some in-person research.
I learned the rules of the House chamber. We could bring laptops, and there would be internet access. But the House press gallery forbids photography; we would have to type out descriptions of any visuals we wanted to capture. We also faced another challenge: hand-entering 431 votes split among four wall-size screens. Worse, the press seats were beneath the screens, making them hard to see. Several ill-placed wall lamps added to the difficulty. And once the voting period ended, the screens turned off, and the vote tally disappeared.
May 9
Mr. Trump abruptly fired James B. Comey, who was leading an investigation into whether Mr. Trump’s advisers colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 election.
Something was clearly going on. After a few minutes, Mr. Spicer opened the door and announced to me and the half dozen other reporters who were nervously waiting that something important would be in our inboxes momentarily.
NBC’s Hallie Jackson pushed him to share more as we all checked our email and saw nothing. Mr. Spicer pointed to ABC’s Jon Karl.
“It’s your question from the briefing,” he said, smiling.
“Comey?” Mr. Karl offered, recalling that he had asked Mr. Spicer whether the president still had confidence in the F.B.I. director.
Mr. Spicer smiled broadly and put his finger on his nose.
June 8
Mr. Comey said that the president had tried to derail an investigation into an adviser and that he had lied about and defamed Mr. Comey.
With hearings like this one, I have to preconceive of the scene. I make a layout in my mind of everything that’s going to happen: the moment he arrives, the moment he sits down, the moment he raises his hand to be sworn in. And I set up my cameras to capture all those moments, to be fired remotely, all at the same time. (When I fired the picture of Mr. Comey surrounded by the press, I had the three other cameras firing too.)
I put my fourth camera up on a full-length monopod and held it as high as I could. I pre-focused the shot ahead of time, and spent a little time making sure the image would be sharp. And, as more people arrived, I thought, “There’s no way I can’t put all these photographers into the foreground of the picture.” So I took three or four steps back and zoomed out a bit.
July 6
Mr. Trump said that Western civilization was at risk of decline, bringing a message about “radical Islamic terrorism” and “the creep of government bureaucracy” to Warsaw.
Usually, overseas presidential trips are elaborately choreographed affairs weeks or months in the making, with pre-baked schedules to match. But that afternoon, just five hours before Mr. Trump disembarked, I finally received an email from the White House informing me of his schedule — and my own — for the next day. It was the latest I could ever recall getting such information.
But the Trump White House eschews many of the protocols and procedures that usually surround a president, and advance warning for the press about Mr. Trump’s movements and plans can be difficult to come by. For instance, there was a mention of a “news event” with President Andrzej Duda of Poland, but it would not become clear until the next morning whether Mr. Trump planned to take any questions.
July 19
The president also said in an interview that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, would cross a red line if he delved into Trump family finances unrelated to Russia.
Whatever else he is, Mr. Trump is a news machine. He generates headlines every time he speaks. He has made the White House press corps a growth industry. With other presidents, we sometimes struggled to find nuggets of news in an interview; with Mr. Trump we were overwhelmed. After the session on Wednesday, I have now interviewed seven presidents — some in office, some after they left — and with Mr. Trump the experience is strikingly different in almost every respect.
May 31
The debate over what the president meant effectively consumed Twitter — or at least a certain segment of it.
That tweet came on one of the few nights I left the office early, shortly before midnight, so I got the alert while I was driving home. I sat in my driveway for at least 20 minutes, waiting for Mr. Trump to either add to the covfefe tweet or delete it. (Most of us on the Washington bureau staff get Twitter alerts on our phones both when he tweets and when he deletes the tweets.) When he didn’t, I became worried that something had happened to him. Had he fallen asleep? Did he have a heart attack? Was he called down to the SitRoom? It was weird.
July 26
I suspect that in years to come, when I am recounting what it was like to be a Pentagon correspondent, I will remember far more the combination of hurt and defiance in the voice of a transgender American service member when I asked him how it felt to wake up Wednesday morning to a tweet from President Trump that he was no longer welcome in this country’s all-volunteer military.
August 8
The White House press secretary is more understated than her predecessor, Sean Spicer, but she still speaks for a president at war with the news media.
It was Ms. Sanders’s final meeting before the West Wing closed for a summer renovation, and her office was almost bare. A lone houseplant, a holdover from the Obama administration, drooped from a high shelf. “I’ve kept it alive until the last month and now it’s just fallen apart,” she told me.
Was that a metaphor? She laughed. “No, the plant — it just didn’t make it.”
September 1
A Times investigation found that infiltration efforts were broader than previously disclosed and that state and federal agencies have conducted few forensic inquiries.
In fact, we discovered that precious little research had been conducted, the result of legal limits on the authority of intelligence agencies to address domestic issues and states’ historic reluctance to permit federal oversight of elections.
Michael Wines, who covers election issues for the Times, said that what stood out to him was the vulnerability of the nation’s vast Rube Goldberg election system. Elections, he explained, “are run by understaffed, underfinanced and sometimes undertrained local officials, serviced by outside contractors who may or may not be well vetted, conducted with equipment and software that may or may not be secure.”
And Matthew Rosenberg, who covers national security issues for the Times, discovered that the intelligence community’s conclusion — that the Election Day vote was not hacked — was extremely limited in scope.
I started calling around to the election security and technology experts who had witnessed some of the troubles that cropped up on Election Day. I found that they, too, were still searching for answers and were befuddled by the lack of any substantial investigation.
October 3
The calendar of Scott Pruitt, obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, showed fine dining with officials from companies he regulates but few meetings with environmentalists.
Lisa covers the E.P.A. for The Times. I write about regulatory policy and lobbying. We spent much of the weekend reading through Mr. Pruitt’s calendar.
October 15
Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona was in political peril ahead of the 2018 midterms, but he said he had no regrets in taking on Mr. Trump. Mr. Flake has since announced that he would not run for re-election next year.
What I remember most about Mr. Flake that day was his mood. He was not defiant, as he would later be in his Senate floor speech. Rather, he was deeply reflective; in retrospect, it seems clear he knew even then that his political career was over.
The shadowy program began in 2007 and was largely funded at the request of Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, who was the majority leader at the time and who has had a longtime interest in space phenomena.
So how does a story on U.F.O.s get into The New York Times? Not easily, and only after a great deal of vetting, I assure you.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
New TV shows, museum openings, film releases and concerts — it’s a lot to keep track of. Let us help you. For the week of April 8, seven events in New York and elsewhere not to be missed:
Whether it’s reacting against patriarchy, pixelation, or the oppressive austerities of midcentury Minimalism, the use of crafty patterns in contemporary visual art has always had a political charge. But several of the 26 artists in this exhibition — jointly organized by El Museo del Barrio, the Hostos Center for the Arts & Culture and the Bronx Council on the Arts — make those politics even more explicit by combining decorative motifs with images of the body.
What did Joe Paterno know, and when? And why didn’t he do more to stop it? Those questions loom with escalating alarm over Barry Levinson’s “Paterno,” which rides the fall from grace of the revered Penn State football coach — the winningest in college history — during the sexual abuse scandal surrounding Jerry Sandusky, a longtime assistant coach.
No one rapped like Rakim in his late-’80s heyday — ultra-focused, preternaturally cool, somersaulting through complex rhyme patterns like it was nothing. And while times have changed since then, the four albums that he recorded as a duo with the D.J. Eric B. between 1987 and 1992 remain significant touchstones for a certain strain of hip-hop lyricism. You can hear echoes of Rakim’s revolutionary style in Kendrick Lamar’s precisely stacked syllables and Jay-Z’s authoritative tone, among others.
Ludwig van Beethoven’s 16 string quartets are a cornerstone of the chamber music repertory, and those in the New York area this week will have three opportunities to hear them performed by very different ensembles.
By outward appearances, Amrita, Ritu and Dipti are thoroughly modern millennials — vivacious, educated and independent, save for one important fact. According to Indian tradition, it’s time to find a husband. Which even in the 21st century still often means an arranged marriage.
The documentary “A Suitable Girl,” now on Amazon and iTunes, trails these women and their increasingly anxious families across four years as they try, try, try to find an acceptable spouse. Dreams and desires are shelved as they mold themselves into the marrying kind: Urban lifestyles in Mumbai and Delhi are traded for rural towns or faraway lands; graduate degrees and hard-won jobs at global corporations are abandoned for the sake of a partner’s career. The women are paraded before potential mates at the equivalent of cattle calls, their desirable traits — long hair, beautiful eyes, slim figures, fair skin and an aptitude in the kitchen — marketed in matrimonial ads and online matchmaking profiles. Meanwhile, the men’s primary selling point is wealth.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
In 2012, Dravosburg backed Barack Obama over Mitt Romney 441 to 312, or 53.4 percent to 44.8 percent.
What is so interesting about this working-class community, with its strong ties to organized labor? It is one of thousands of white enclaves across the nation that provided Trump with his margin of victory.
The election of Donald Trump revealed that in some of the nation’s whitest municipalities and counties — the communities arguably most insulated from urban crime, immigration and gangs — Trump did far better than Romney had done four years earlier.
The 2016 results suggest that residents of a diminishing number of decisively white American towns and small cities — even those which supported Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012 — can now be politically mobilized around race, ethnicity, multiculturalism and immigration.
None of the nation’s whitest municipalities and counties — especially those in the Trump-voting Midwest — is immune.
Where are the overwhelmingly white localities experiencing the most rapid rate of minority population growth, although the absolute numbers themselves are small? They are in the part of the nation’s heartland — Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania — where Trump earned enough Electoral College support to win the presidency even as he lost the popular vote.
In 2008, Elk County residents voted 51-47 for Obama over McCain. In 2012, the county backed Romney over Obama 57-41. In 2016, Trump swept Elk County, 69-27.
The graphic ranks, left to right, the percentage of whites in every municipality within the nation’s top 50 metropolitan areas. The red line shows where Trump did less well than Romney and where he did much better.
Will Stancil, a research fellow at the Institute on Metropolitan Opportunity who created the chart, explained to me in an email that
nationally, Trump mostly lagged behind Romney. But in the limited selection of communities where his message hit home, it really hit home, with large gains over Romney really running up the score. These places were very heavily white.
Orfield described the charts in an email:
Trump’s vote skyrocketed in very white suburbs. In the more racially diverse suburbs, particularly those that had been diverse for more than a decade, the white vote for Trump did not increase over Romney’s vote. But in the very white suburbs, particularly in very segregated areas of the Midwest and Northeast, Trump’s vote jumped enormously over Romney’s.
The very white municipalities that voted so strongly for Trump believe that they have reason to worry about the racial stability of their neighborhoods.
The percentage of suburbanites living in racially diverse areas — defined as 20 to 60 percent minority — grew over that decade from 38 to 44 percent. Those neighborhoods often remain in flux.
“Fifty-six percent of the neighborhoods that were integrated in 1980 had become predominantly nonwhite by 2010,” Orfield and Luce wrote, “and only 40% of neighborhoods that were integrated in the 1980s remained in that category in 2010.”
Trump’s anti-immigrant, racially loaded messages resonated most powerfully among voters living in the least diverse, most racially isolated white communities. It is in these locales, which are experiencing the earliest signs of minority growth, that anxiety over approaching diversity is strongest.
Put another way, anger, fear and animosity toward immigrants and minorities was most politically potent in the communities most insulated from these supposed threats.
Trump clearly inflamed and mobilized white voters living in these circumstances. Neither Romney nor John McCain, the previous two Republican nominees, campaigned on racially freighted issues and neither produced the same pattern of support.
“Trump,” Alan Berube, deputy director of the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program, wrote in an email,
got a particular boost from small, overwhelmingly white communities threatened not only by real forces of technological change and trade, but also by the specter of immigrants and other nonwhites making gains at their expense in America’s economy and society.
As the accompanying graphic shows, in the four key Rust Belt states that handed Trump the presidency, the same pattern of voter mobilization in ultra-white districts emerges even more forcefully.
“To the extent Trump really resonated, it was in heavily-white areas — and that includes exurbs at the urban fringe, rural areas, and many heavily white second-ring suburbs,” Stancil wrote in his email. “It was his message resonating in those areas that gave him a fighting chance at all.”
In some respects, the data gathered by Orfield’s team is good news for Democrats. The core of Trump’s support lies in counties and municipalities like Dravosburg and Elk County, many of which are losing population. They are, in effect, the last gasp of white hegemony.
Still, immense damage has been done.
The consequences?
As the public discourse around issues of social welfare, immigration, national security, and a whole host of other issues becomes highly racialized and explicitly hostile, the potential for open racial conflict may rise. Furthermore, as these negative attitudes toward racial outgroups become increasingly tightly tied to parties, polarization increases and gridlock and a lack of legislative compromise ensue.
When I look back at the 2016 election, what is really striking is how much influence over the course of events was exercised by the relatively small numbers of voters in super-white municipalities and counties and by the politician who ignited them — how the last gasp of a small fraction of the electorate set the nation on such a dangerous and destructive course.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Nonfiction
When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.
“I never buy a hat without wondering if Monsieur Renoir will like it,” Julie Manet charmingly notes in a journal entry from 1898. The daughter of the French Impressionist painter Berthe Morisot and Eugène Manet (the painter Édouard’s younger brother), Julie is orphaned at 16. From then on, her well-being and “somewhat haphazard education” are overseen by her guardian, the poet Stéphane Mallarmé, and by her mother’s friends and colleagues, the Impressionists. The girl keeps company with the likes of Monet, Degas and Renoir, who, Julie reports, “was painting alongside Cézanne” when he “heard the news of Maman’s death. He closed his paintbox and took the next train to Paris. I have never forgotten the way he arrived … and held me close to him; I can still see his white cravat with its little red polka dots.”
Given the injustice perpetrated against Captain Dreyfus and, 40 years later, the unspeakable policies of Vichy France, which occurred during Julie’s lifetime (she was born in 1878 and died in 1966), how are we to give such racism a pass? What to think — what to do — about great artists whose politics are repugnant?
Nancy Kline’s most recent book is a translation of Armand Gatti’s “The Five Resistance Names of Georges Guingouin.”
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
Advertisement
Supported by
Ed Gillespie has emerged as a one-stop power broker. He advises top White House officials, works for GOP campaigns, lobbies for major corporations and opines on political talk shows.
a bipartisan culture shift in Washington, in which influence-peddlers don’t have to limit themselves to one, two or even three high-profile roles.
With that background in mind, let’s take a look at the current Virginia gubernatorial campaign.
Before the Republican primary last June, Gillespie was running as the leader of the Republican establishment in Virginia, aloof from the turmoil in the Trump wing of the party.
But just like the polls that called the presidential election for Hillary Clinton, the pre-primary polls in Virginia underestimated the pro-Trump vote and failed to anticipate the populist groundswell in the state.
are sick and tired of the wishy-washy, weak-kneed, establishment Republicans who don’t stand for anything.
Gillespie got the message loud and clear: The populist right-wing was much stronger than he had thought. If a substantial number of the 155,466 voters for Stewart stayed home on Nov. 7, the Gillespie campaign was dead.
it would be a shame — that I put in all the time I did, and all of you folks put in all the time you did, and we all across America worked as hard as we could to send Donald Trump to Washington, D.C., to drain the swamp, and send a lobbyist to Richmond.
Northam cast the deciding vote in favor of sanctuary cities that let illegal immigrants who commit crimes back on the street, increasing the threat of MS-13.
In fact, there are no sanctuary cities in Virginia.
Last year, Terry McAuliffe and Ralph Northam instituted the automatic restoration of rights for violent felons and sex offenders, making it easier for them to obtain firearms and allowing them to serve on juries. One of these felons, John Bowen, had his rights restored two months after being found with one of the largest child pornography collections in Virginia’s history.
Technically, it is true that Mr. McAuliffe’s policy, which Mr. Northam backs, made it easier for Mr. Bowen to obtain firearms, serve on juries and vote. In fact, there were no elections in the 41-day window during which he regained his rights, and as a former felon he would have needed a judge’s approval to obtain a gun. Nor was there time for him to be summoned and serve on a jury. Mr. Gillespie, determined to inflame and distract voters, could not be bothered with such details. Once known as a pragmatist and a centrist, Mr. Gillespie increasingly has been turning in his political advertising to President Trump’s brand of divisive, scaremongering politics.
Ralph Northam, who is running for Governor of Virginia, is fighting for the violent MS-13 killer gangs & sanctuary cities. Vote Ed Gillespie!
Ed Gillespie will turn the really bad Virginia economy #’s around, and fast. Strong on crime, he might even save our great statues/heritage!
John Feehery, a lobbyist who worked at Quinn Gillespie, wrote in an email that Trump’s support may hurt Gillespie in the suburbs around Washington, D.C., but it
helps immeasurably in the rest of the State. Thanks to Trump’s endorsement, the places that Ed most needs to get excited will get excited. So this works out well for Gillespie.
Larry Sabato, a political scientist at the University of Virginia, was more emphatic:
Let’s put it this way: If Trump weren’t supportive of Gillespie, it would drive a stake into the heart of Gillespie’s candidacy. It’s a fine line. Gillespie needs to be acceptable enough to the Trump voters so that they’ll actually show up to vote. Few will back Northam, so just getting them excited enough to cast a ballot is enough. Gillespie’s TV ad emphasis on immigration, crime, and commutations appears to have tipped the Trump base into Gillespie’s column — assisted by Trump’s supportive tweets. They’re not running to the polls like last year, but walking gets them there too.
Is this what Donald Trump and Ed Gillespie mean by “the American dream”?
This attack is not just an attack on my supporters, who are good, decent, hardworking Virginians who love their neighbors, it is an attack on all Virginians.
David Turner, communications director for the Northam campaign, countered:
Ed Gillespie has spent upwards of $9 million making obvious racial appeals. Ed Gillespie has stoked fear among Hispanic immigrants. He turned on the stove and now the water is boiling over.
But, Turner added,
Ralph Northam would not have run this ad and believes Virginians deserve civility, not escalation. Dr. Northam is committed to unifying Virginians to appeal to their hopes, rather than dividing them through fear.
The ad was pulled late in the day on Oct. 31.
If painting Northam as a friend to violent Salvadoran gangs and pedophiles seems like a stretch, that’s American politics in 2017. We used to think that however grotesque they were, there was still a difference between overt declarations and explicit racial politics on one hand and dog whistles and implicit racial politics on the other. That distinction seems to be fading, if it is not gone altogether. Whether the Gillespie-Trump brand of Republicanism sells to the Virginia electorate this year will tell us a lot about where American politics stand a year after the election of President Trump — and the outcome will also offer tantalizing hints about where we are headed in 2018 and 2020.
Advertisement
Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS