AdvertisementSupported byThe 2016 RaceMr. Finnigan took what he called a leap of faith last week and quit his truck dispatcher job to “immerse” himself in Decision Desk HQ, hoping he could find major funding to expand operations.I recently chatted with him about the significance of Pennsylvania and some of his other passions, including his family and astronomy. This is a condensed and lightly edited transcript of our email conversation.More college-educated voters, wealthy voters and suburban voters are drifting away from the Republican Party, while noncollege whites and residents of rural and exurban areas are moving toward it. Diversity has hit the suburbs themselves: Once overwhelmingly white, the inner suburbs of Philadelphia, in Delaware and Montgomery and Bucks, have seen an explosion in nonwhite residents, just like they have in Virginia, California, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan, heck, nearly everywhere.Well, when I watched the changes in registration, and I saw Trump’s surprising strength in the state, it was encouraging because I felt vindicated: It’s happening. But the “why” for a lot of these voters concerned me. A lot of these people are desperate, their communities riddled with prescription drug addiction and stunted incomes, and their family structure has broken down. Nobody, regardless of what catchy sound bite or big smile, is going to fix their problems for them. If Trump gets elected, their lives aren’t going to improve. Once he’s out of office, they’ll end up even more jaded and disconnected than they already are.The Upshot’s presidential forecast, updated daily.Trump’s campaign strategy mirrors a parody of conservatism: angry, afraid, racially motivated, terrified of inevitable change. This is clearly turning off moderates and even conservative suburbanites, and not just in Pennsylvania. Unchecked, it will reverse the impressive gains Republicans had enjoyed recently in many purple and blue states like Wisconsin and Maryland.As the overseer of the Decision Desk, I have to separate the personal from the political with regards to operations, but from my own Twitter account, I’ve made it clear how I feel about the blatant racism expressed by the alt-right. But my greatest animosity isn’t targeted at them, because you will always have a small contingent of people with radical beliefs that won’t gain lasting traction outside of forums and anonymous trolling. My disappointment is saved for the websites and institutions that employed a lot of these writers, linked a lot of their material, even promoted some of it, and only became outraged when they themselves became the target.The changing makeup of the country isn’t the real problem the Republicans face. They must have a very clear set of unifying goals. What’s the goal for the party these days? One wing wants no amnesty, the other wants an open border. Social conservatism is seeing uneven success and was outright rejected in many ways in favor of a New Yorker’s populism. What does the party, as a whole, even believe in anymore?The Upshot’s Senate election forecast for 2016, updated daily with the latest polls.We’re America’s second pair of eyes on election night, and feel that with enough support, we can give the public a more comprehensive understanding of how their vote is counted.Wait, who am I kidding — Pennsylvania is the sun and the moon and stars. It’s everything, right?Let me close with these two questions:1) In what year will Republicans win Pennsylvania?2) What’s the best astronomical metaphor for Donald Trump and this 2016 election campaign?Brandon1) 2020 or 2024. Democrats win this time, but eventually the desire for change will outlast even their favorable demographics. When the Republicans win the White House back, they carry Pennsylvania with them. Ahab will get his whale.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS