AdvertisementIn any reality-TV show — if we can agree that that is what American politics has morphed into — there comes the moment where one of the stars reads his or her co-stars for filth. Sue Hawk delivered her famous “rat and snake” speech about her opponents on the first season of “Survivor.” Teresa Giudice flipped over a table on “The Real Housewives of New Jersey.”The fired F.B.I. director James B. Comey’s camera manner is more suited for a human-resources video than a reality-show throwdown. But speaking to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, live on cable and broadcast news, Mr. Comey demonstrated that he was not there to make friends — at least not with the president who he said fired him because of the investigation into Russian influence on the 2016 election.Mr. Comey opened by calling Donald J. Trump, under oath, a liar. I should distinguish that from merely accusing Mr. Trump of telling a lie. Mr. Comey did that, too: In measured opening remarks, just tinged with anger, he said that the president’s characterizations of him and the F.B.I. were “lies, plain and simple.”But maybe more shockingly, Mr. Comey said that Mr. Trump was a liar to his essence. Mr. Comey had taken detailed notes on their conversations because of “the nature of the person,” he said. “I was honestly concerned that he might lie.”AdvertisementYou could argue that — by the expectations set by political fiction and the excited walk-up to the testimony — Mr. Comey’s testimony lacked smoking guns. But there was, within his mild-mannered delivery, considerable fire.AdvertisementCNN had spent days promoting the testimony with a countdown clock. It warmed up to it with predictions and handicapping and pregame analysis as if it were the Super Bowl. It brought on figures from Watergate, including John W. Dean and Carl Bernstein. TV news all but promised SuperGateBowlMageddon, script by Aaron Sorkin, directed by Michael Bay.But a wider audience, for whom the hearing pre-empted “The Price Is Right” and “The View,” saw something remarkable: the nation’s former top lawman methodically detailing a story of being awkwardly courted and pressured by a chief executive he could not trust.Mr. Trump, after firing Mr. Comey, dismissed him as a “showboat.” Mr. Comey did not exactly cut a flamboyant presence, sitting ramrod straight with a vanilla expression. But there was something of the practiced showman about him — at least within the restrained format of Senate theater.Asked why he should be trusted, he demurred, “My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself, so I’m not going to.” (Which is a way of saying it, of course.) He cast the Russian threat as a bipartisan issue, saying, “They’re coming after America, which I hope we all love equally.” He aimed for aw-gosh earnestness, which the network broadcasts sometimes underlined by framing his head in daytime-drama close-up.Legally, hearings like this are part of a long process. (TV networks aired the Watergate hearings from May to August of 1973.) Politically, they don’t change the fact that the president’s party controls both houses of Congress.Commentators reached back decades for a parallel, both to Watergate and to the Iran-contra hearings. In an odd way, the session also recalled Anita Hill and Clarence Thomas. It didn’t involve sexual harassment, but it was about the interpreting the dynamic between an underling and a superior asking for something without asking for it.AdvertisementIn my experience as prosecutor, when a robber holds a gun to your head and "hopes" for your wallet, "hope" is not the operative word.Speaking of Twitter, there was an invisible presence in the room: the president, who just might choose to live-tweet the proceedings. He didn’t, though no doubt the network graphics staffs were on a hair-trigger.So if he was a "Stronger guy" he might have actually followed procedure & the law? You were the director of the FBI, who are you kidding?Hey, it didn’t say “crook.” Don’t tell me times haven’t changed.Go to Home Page »