AdvertisementALBANY — A German couple walked into their apartment building in Harlem one warm evening in 1973. There were shouts, screams, and two strangers ran out — muggers. They took off down the street.Three men chatting on that block of Riverside Drive West watched — a state official, a neighborhood businessman and a newly minted Democratic district leader holding a can of fruit cocktail that he was bringing home. He reared back and hurled it at the muggers. He missed. So the three bystanders stopped bystanding and started chasing.“It was a lot of fun,” the Democratic leader, Herman D. Farrell Jr., said last week, laughing and looking back 44 years to that day, past a political lifetime far longer than most, and thought of that fast and fearless version of himself. Mr. Farrell caught up with one of the muggers and grabbed his neck, only to be flipped over the man’s shoulders and thrown to the ground. But the three friends caught both men, and Mr. Farrell walked away unhurt.Advertisement“Staying alive,” he said.Advertisement“I believe you can get things done if you control the mechanics,” he said then.Along the way, Mr. Farrell built something elusive among many in his chosen calling: a reputation for trustworthiness and for decency in his treatment of rivals.“He is the exemplar of the kind of compromising and deal-making politician that all of a sudden everybody longs for,” said Richard L. Brodsky, a former assemblyman from Westchester. “He was and still is the most elegant person in that chamber.”Charles B. Rangel, the former congressman representing Harlem and Washington Heights, praised his friend’s candor. “He would speak his mind,” he said. “If you’re going to be in for the long run, it’s much easier to know what your true convictions are than to try to remember what you said the last time the question was asked.”Mr. Farrell has heard a lot of these sorts of things since he announced his retirement earlier this month. “I’m really impressed by this guy Farrell,” he said in his Albany office last week, and shrugged. “Next year they won’t remember my name.”The son of a tailor, he has been known as an impeccable dresser throughout his adult life, weaving through his district in Harlem or back and forth to Albany in his cherished convertibles, pulling his hair back into a ponytail when the wind blew it in his face.He said whatever reputation for decorum and for straight talk that he has picked up owes to his upbringing — “My mother would whip me if I didn’t have class,” he said — and childhood in Harlem.“Growing up, we were all different,” he said. “I’m black, Steve’s Jewish. You learned how to insult people without getting killed. I can cut you, because I know how to cut, but on the other hand, you know how to do it just right.”AdvertisementHe also learned how to learn. “When I was a child, I couldn’t decide if I was an idiot or smart, because I’m dyslexic,” he said. “I didn’t know what dyslexic was.” Nor did his teachers. He was never a strong student, but he learned how to think creatively to solve problems that others managed more easily, a strategy of casting a wide net for preparation that he said made him a strong debater in later years.“I can’t write a lick, but I can do things,” he said. “I keep things in my head.”David N. Dinkins, the former New York City mayor, said Mr. Farrell had a gift for reading the room before a vote was taken and knowing the outcome. “The thing he was best at was counting,” he said last week. “It’s very important to know how to count.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Several political veterans described Mr. Farrell’s most significant defeat as a sort of victory. In 1985, he ran against Edward I. Koch in the mayoral primary, winning just 13 percent of the vote. But his race was later seen as a steppingstone for Mr. Dinkins’ election five years later.John LoCicero was on the other side of the 1985 race, a longtime adviser to Mr. Koch. “Of all the politicians I have dealt with, when he’s on my side or against, he and I, and Koch, always had a good relationship,” Mr. LoCicero said. “When he gave his word, that was his bond. I never heard anybody put a bad word on Denny.”Joseph R. Lentol, another longtime assemblyman, said Mr. Farrell’s style stands out today. “He debates like a gentleman and makes his point and doesn’t get nasty,” he said. “Maybe it’s a lost art.”Today, Mr. Farrell still stands tall, at 6-foot-4, but leaner than he would like, having lost enough weight to send him to the tailor’s for adjustments to his trademark suits. He stops to catch his breath after a walk across a room. He said he is experiencing new difficulties with memory, and has been, he realizes now, for about a year.“I didn’t catch that I was not functioning as well,” he said. “I should have quit then,” before the last legislative session, he said. “After I got through this year, I realized I had to get out now.”Advertisement“I liked the man,” Mr. Farrell said. “He was a German who was in a concentration camp and he didn’t have to be. His wife was Jewish but he wasn’t. He kept her alive and kept himself alive.”Mr. Farrell was already a grandfather when, at age 73, he became a father again with the birth of his daughter, Sophia. She is now 12. (“I think it kind of kept him young, to have a young daughter,” Mr. Lentol said.) In announcing his stepping down, Mr. Farrell repeatedly mentioned her and his wish to spend more time with his family.“I’ve got to get her to focus better,” he said. “She’s a whip.”As for the future, Mr. Farrell sees no downside to his generation’s passing of the torch, and in fact, sees improvement. “What really impresses me as I leave is that women will reach an equal place soon,” he said of the Assembly membership. He is promoting Al Taylor, his chief of staff, as his replacement.“He came to me as an intern,” more than 30 years ago, he said. “I told him, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll be out soon. You can take over.’”“The new world, he understands,” Mr. Farrell said. “I don’t.”He smiled. “It’s a good thing,” he said.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseAs Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, put it this week, “We’ve got to move on to tax reform so we have a competitive tax system,” and do it “pretty quickly.” The House Ways and Means Committee continued hearings on tax legislation on Wednesday.The stakes couldn’t be higher for Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration, all anxious to demonstrate that a party that controls the White House and both houses of Congress can accomplish something significant and deliver on at least one major campaign promise.So what would be the elements of a tax reform plan that is fair and simple and will stimulate growth — not to mention attract at least 50 Republican votes in the Senate?A good place to start, say many Republicans and Democrats, is the Tax Reform Act of 1986, enacted under President Ronald Reagan with bipartisan support.Almost everyone, it now seems, loves it.“President Reagan was willing to lead on tax reform,” they wrote. “As a result of that leadership and three years of difficult work in Congress, the United States emerged with one of the most modern, fair and competitive tax systems in the developed world — one that laid the foundation for decades of American job growth.”Byron Dorgan, a former Democratic senator and representative from North Dakota, and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee that approved the 1986 bill, wrote in The Hill this year: “It was widely celebrated as a major success. We eliminated many deductions and special deals in the tax code, used the savings to substantially lower the top tax rate to 28 percent, and also simplified the tax code.”The 1986 reform also achieved the elusive goal of being “revenue neutral” (meaning it neither expanded the deficit nor entailed an overall tax increase) even as it cut the top individual rate from 50 percent to 28 percent. The top corporate rate declined to 34 percent, at the time the lowest corporate rate in the developed world, from 46 percent. The legislation offset the loss of revenue by broadening the base — eliminating a host of deductions, exemptions and credits, including many abusive tax shelters. It also greatly simplified returns for millions of taxpayers.Legislators sold the bill to voters as a fair, efficient, simple spur to economic growth, and it proved enormously popular, one of Reagan’s enduring accomplishments. The economy (and the stock market) soared. But over the years, much of it was undone as lobbyists and special interests pushed new preferences into the tax code.As Mr. Brady said this week: “America now has one of the most costly, unfair, and uncompetitive tax systems in the world. The need for pro-growth tax reform is urgent.”So why not go back to 1986 and simply restore the principle that worked so well then — lower tax rates, along with a broader base that avoids increasing the deficit?It turns out that many people have tried. The most recent example came in 2014, with tax reform legislation drafted by the Ways and Means Committee, led at the time by Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, a Republican who retired from politics in 2015. The legislation followed 30 congressional hearings dedicated to tax reform and 11 separate bipartisan tax reform working groups led by Mr. Camp and Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, then the ranking Democrat on the committee.The Camp reform proposal cut rates and closed loopholes. The bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation estimated it would lead to the creation of 1.8 million jobs and add up to $3.4 trillion to the gross domestic product without adding to the deficit. The committee estimated that the bill would save an average middle-class family of four $1,300 per year in federal taxes.“I took as inspiration the 1986 act,” Mr. Camp told me this week. “We adopted the same structure and approach. We reduced rates and broadened the base. I felt good about that.”Mr. Camp’s effort drew bipartisan praise. “I applaud it,” said C. Eugene Steuerle, a co-founder and fellow of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a key architect of the 1986 reform act and former deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy. While it needed a few amendments, he said, over all “it was rigorous, based on clear principles, and didn’t rely on magic money” to avoid expanding the deficit.The Camp bill never even made it to the House floor.“You can’t just go back to 1986 today,” said Michael J. Graetz, a professor and tax specialist at Columbia and Yale law schools who has written extensively about the 1986 act. Then, there were numerous tax shelters, loopholes and other sources of revenue. Today, “there’s no pot of gold to pay for the cuts, the way there was back in 1986,” Mr. Graetz said.Even though it nominally cut corporate rates, the 1986 act actually shifted much of the tax burden from individuals to corporations. That’s not feasible today, where lowering the tax burden on corporations is a major goal.That was a reality that Mr. Camp had to confront. “The Camp plan turned out to be a reality test,” Mr. Graetz said. “There was a lot of pain in the Camp bill in terms of eliminating tax deductions and credits. And that only got you to a 25 percent corporate rate. President Obama used to say he could get us to 28 percent, also with a lot of pain. But it’s hard to get the business community excited about 28 percent or 25 percent, especially now that the U.K. is moving to 17 percent and Canada is close to that.”And Mr. Camp’s plan wasn’t able to lower individual rates much at all — devising three brackets, taxed at 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent. But it phased out certain deductions and exemptions for people making over $400,000 a year. The Tax Foundation calculated that some taxpayers making more than $400,000 would pay a marginal rate as high as 43.8 percent, in effect a tax increase on the wealthy. It also hit rich taxpayers by lowering the cap on mortgage deductions to $500,000, from $1 million.And the Camp plan actually raised the top effective rate on capital gains and dividends to 24.8 percent, from 23.8 percent, according to the Tax Foundation.That was anathema to many Republicans.Some of the “pain” inflicted by the Camp plan also hits especially close to the Trump White House, since it proposed closing some of the biggest loopholes for real estate developers. Mr. Camp’s plan eliminated the break for so-called like-kind exchanges, which many real estate developers use to delay or avoid capital gains tax.And the Camp plan proposed longer depreciation schedules, reducing the deductions that businesses can take for capital investment and thus increasing taxes for most real estate developers. The Trump plan calls for immediate expensing of 100 percent of capital costs, eliminating depreciation altogether — an enormous windfall for real estate interests.It should probably come as no surprise that one person who didn’t like the Tax Reform Act of 1986 was Mr. Trump. “One of the worst ideas in recent history,” was how he described it in a 1999 op-ed piece in The Wall Street Journal.Suffice it to say that anything resembling the 1986 act would appear to be dead on arrival with this administration and Congress, even though many tax experts support such an approach.“Camp’s approach is what responsible tax reform should look like, and he garnered no support from either Republicans or Democrats,” Mr. Graetz said.That doesn’t mean people are giving up hope. “I’m still optimistic we can conclude tax reform this year,” said Mr. Camp, now a senior policy adviser at the tax, accounting and consulting firm PwC. He’s been encouraged that Trump administration officials have recently reached out to him.“The issues are difficult but it’s not nearly as partisan as health care,” he said. “There’s been a lot of work done on tax policy over the years, and I think we can build on that. Most people agree there’s an urgent need for tax reform, and I see this as a tremendous opportunity.”First in a series of Common Sense columns about the shape a responsible tax reform plan might take.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byMr. President, 172,000 West Virginians got insurance for the first time. These are working people, but they’ve got something they never had before. They don’t know how they got it, they don’t know who gave it to them, they don’t know the Democrats, nothing about, “It’s Obamacare." They don’t know any of that. All they know is they’ve got it. And you know what? They voted for you, Mr. President. The Democrats gave it to them but they voted for you. They’re going to know who took it away from them.During the campaign, Trump appeared to fully grasp Manchin’s point.Even after he won the presidency, Trump maintained his pro forma commitment to social insurance.What in fact would the Trump-backed measure passed by the House last week actually do?The distributional impact of the tax provisions is most apparent in the highest income brackets: those in the top one percent, whose household income is more than $770,000, would get an average tax cut of $37,220. Those in the top 0.1 percent, who make $4 million or more, would get an average reduction of $207,240.the proposed changes to Medicaid under AHCA would disproportionately affect low-income individuals and people of color for whom the program is a central source of coverage. Medicaid covers over half of all poor families, one in five adults of color, and over half of children of color.Judith Solomon, vice president for health policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, described some of the AHCA changes in Medicaid in an email.Beginning in 2020, Solomon wrote,states can freeze enrollment and only cover the “grandfathered” enrollees who were enrolled on 12/31/19. The block grant option allows states to cut eligibility. The only requirement would be to cover pregnant women and children under age 6 with incomes under 138% of the poverty line, and children 6 to 18 below the poverty line.Along similar lines, Matthew Fiedler, a Brookings fellow, wrote me:The two most important Medicaid provisions under the AHCA are: (1) cutting federal funding for covering the ACA Medicaid expansion population; and (2) implementing a “per capita cap” that would limit the total amount of federal funding states could receive per person they enroll. Both provisions would give states very strong incentives to curtail eligibility, but neither would directly require states to do so.Just as the tax changes in the Republican bill flow to the rich, so do the health care benefits.Those making less than $10,000-a-year would lose an average of about $1,400, or nearly one-third of their income — under the AHCA relative to the ACA. Middle-income households, those making $50,000 to $75,000, would see little change — an average increase in net government transfers of about $60. However, those making $200,000 or more would receive an average net increase in government support of $5,640, or 1.1 percent of their income.Gleckman explained that thedecline in well-being for low-income people would result from the AHCA’s proposals to cut the federal contribution to Medicaid and its move to eliminate cost-sharing subsidies for lower-income households that buy non-group insurance, thus raising their deductibles and co-pays.allow for people with pre-existing conditions to be charged more per year for their insurance coverage — possibly to the tune of thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars more per year.result in millions of Americans losing their health care coverage and could make coverage unaffordable for people with pre-existing conditions.From another vantage point, one with political significance, maps created by the Kaiser Family Foundation show how individuals of different ages and incomes would fare if the AHCA replaces Obamacare.The affluent come out ahead. Older voters with modest incomes — a core element of Trump’s support — would be penalized, paying more for health coverage in almost every section of the country.The accompanying Kaiser map shows the sections of the country where a 60-year-old making $30,000-a-year would pay more (in orange) or less (in blue) in 2020. The only places where such an individual would pay less are in New York and Massachusetts.The consequences of the House bill, if it is enacted into law, are plain to see.Mark A. Peterson, a professor of public policy, political science, and law at U.C.L.A., put the case in straightforward terms in an email:The Medicaid cuts and caps would withdraw coverage from large swaths of the poor, the working poor, and lower-paid working class individuals who do not have access to affordable employer-sponsored insurance. The shift to the tax credits for insurance purchase would mean that many working- and lower-middle-class individuals and families would be unable to afford insurance. The weakening of the pre-existing condition protections, and the reliance on usually problematic high-risk pools, would be most detrimental to people with those conditions who are not in the higher ranks of income.Benjamin Sommers, a professor of health policy and economics at Harvard’s School of Public Health, was similarly direct:The AHCA repeals hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes on high-income households and insurance companies, while reducing the Obamacare tax credits that helped lower and middle income families purchase health insurance. The changes to Medicaid are even more dramatic, with more than $800 billion dollars in federal money for the program cut over the next decade — this will have a huge impact on the 70 million lower-income children, adults, disabled individuals, and elderly who currently rely on Medicaid for their health care.Add in the termination of the taxes of investment income and the higher tax obligations in general of more affluent individuals and the AHCA would lead to a dramatic shift of resources away from the poor, working class, and lower middle class, especially for people with jobs outside of the realm of large employers.As is always the case in legislation as complex as health care, the devil is in the details, the significance of which is often hidden from the general public. It is these details that ultimately determine the winners and the losers of any legislative program.For many years, some conservatives have berated the political left for “waging class war” whenever the left suggested that conservative policies helped to further enrich the wealthy at the expense of the poor.In a harsh critique, Aaron added:The AHCA is stunning in its shamelessness and baldness. Even allowing for the fact that Republicans will be ashamed and embarrassed if, after seven years, of promising to “repeal and replace” they were to do nothing, it is difficult to understand why the shame of voting for so egregious and contemptible a piece of legislation did not cause more of them to find it impossible to vote for it.The most surprising aspect of the politics of the AHCA is that by and large the winners cast majorities for Clinton and the losers backed Trump.voters hit the hardest — eligible for at least $5,000 less in tax credits under the Republican plan — supported Mr. Trump by a margin of 59 percent to 36 percent.Affluent constituencies that cast pluralities or majorities for Hillary Clinton actually gained from the measure.Conservative tax reform — perhaps better described as radical tax cuts for the rich — is the very highest priority issue on the Republican legislative agenda. It is also dear to Trump’s heart.In order to get any tax overhaul through the Senate with a simple majority, the tax bill under Senate rules can’t increase the federal deficit. Since the health care bill would cut the federal deficit it makes it easier to come back later and pass more tax cuts.is an old one: divide and rule. The rich guy convinced much of the white working class that he would “take back” the country from the rest of the working class and other undeserving non-white and non-Christian people, as well as the coastal elites giving those folks jobs and handouts at the expense of “real” Americans. It’s a strategy as old as this country.Dunlap is on target. But it’s one thing to gut regulations and change tax rates to benefit the affluent and another thing altogether to take away someone’s health care coverage. Voters who are denied medical care or find themselves unable to pay bills from doctors or hospitals are unlikely to be receptive to a campaign that seeks to “divide and rule,” no matter how receptive they may have been in 2016.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIn bars, V.F.W. halls, offices and living rooms, Americans were riveted by the testimony of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, a moment of high drama about the conduct of President Trump, the workings of American democracy and the threats of Russian involvement in the presidential election.For some the proceedings were seen through the prism of the partisan divide. For others, they were less about Democrats and Republicans than about a dystopian sense that American governance has veered off the rails. Here are four accounts from around the country.DENVER — The televisions at the Park Tavern in a leafy neighborhood near the Colorado State Capitol are usually tuned to sports, but on Thursday morning, it was wall-to-wall Comey as breakfast regulars sipped late-morning beers and aired their frustration and disgust with a political scandal that had dimmed their views of the president.“He’s causing his own demise,” said Chad Cunningham, 45, an Air Force veteran who has voted for Republicans and Democrats but sat out the last presidential election. “He’s not doing anything for this country except embarrassing us.”AdvertisementMr. Cunningham said the former F.B.I. director seemed honest and forthright, a man with little to hide and little reason to lie. To him, Mr. Comey’s steady, detailed delivery made Mr. Trump’s shoot-from-the-phone Twitter habit seem especially intemperate and cavalier. He said he would be perfectly happy if Vice President Mike Pence took over for Mr. Trump.Advertisement“Because this is not working,” he said.As the testimony unfolded on the TV screens, Michael O’Brien, 55, a retired teacher, hunched over his tablet, earbuds inserted, because he said the livestream from PBS was arriving just a few seconds earlier than the cable news feed.“I’m afraid I’m going to miss something,” he said.Mr. O’Brien had nothing kind to say about Mr. Trump or Republican politicians and commentators who have defended him and his campaign during the Russia investigation. He said he was disturbed by Russian hacking and interference in the last election, and was shocked more people were not equally outraged.Mr. O’Brien and the woman sitting next to him at the bar, Sherry Wing, often argue politics. When he criticized the president, Ms. Wing would often respond that the country needed to come together after a divisive election and give him time to grow into the office. She said she still believed that to an extent, but as the testimony played overhead, she was developing another view.“He’s just a spoiled rotten baby,” Ms. Wing said. “Let’s move forward. What are you going to do to make this country better?”Ms. Wing, a registered Republican who tends bar at an American Legion post, voted independent last November out of distaste for both Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton. She said she was not much fazed by political corruption (as old as America) or the revelations of Russian meddling into the election (a distraction).But Ms. Wing was dismayed by what she believed the investigation had revealed about Mr. Trump’s temperament and character.“What the hell does this have to do with anything?” Ms. Wing said. “Bring back our jobs. Bring back our dignity.” JACK HEALYAdvertisementGROVETOWN, Ga. — The water tower here includes a rendering of an American flag and, just above Grovetown’s name, “God Bless America.” Soldiers from Fort Gordon fill restaurants, gas stations and retail shops.But though it was easy to find a television beaming out Mr. Comey’s remarks, many people found other things to focus on.James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, testified before Congress and discussed his meetings and phone calls with President Trump leading up to his dismissal.Ms. Barnes, dressed in a black barber’s smock with “Debbie” embroidered in red, had the hearing on in her shop. About an hour into Mr. Comey’s testimony, her customers had paid little attention, she said.“I don’t even think that anybody noticed it being on,” she said. “They’re just interested in getting a haircut.”Although Ms. Barnes said she was paying some attention to the day’s proceedings, she said she viewed the hearing as unlikely to settle any of the questions that have dogged Mr. Trump’s presidency.“It is a big mess,” said Ms. Barnes, who does not use Twitter and said she was a sparing user of Facebook. “In my opinion, some of the senators are just out to get anything.”She added, “Whether you’re Democrat or Republican, your president is your damn president.”In nearby Augusta, Santria Swinton, 32, was watching the hearing as she cleaned at a hotel where the asking rate for a room on Thursday night was $97. As she moved among rooms on the fourth floor, she was switching televisions to CNN so she could listen to Mr. Comey.Advertisement“I just want to know what’s going on,” she said as she paused for a moment at the door of Room 409, the white comforter on its bed already adjusted, just so. “I’m just taking it all in. I’m just nosy.”At the Harlem, Ga., Huddle House, across the street from a mural of Laurel and Hardy, the Comey hearing was playing on one television and ESPN on another. But neither appeared to be getting much attention.A family sat in a booth closest to the television where Fox News was playing.“I just think it’s propaganda,” Erin Mallory, 39, said as she stood behind the counter and a child screamed from elsewhere in the restaurant.Ms. Mallory said she would catch up on Mr. Comey’s comments later.“I think it’s just more noise,” she said. ALAN BLINDERPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.CHICAGO — In a quiet back room of a bakery here, three friends gathered Thursday to sip coffee, watch CNN and analyze every syllable Mr. Comey said about a president they loathe.“I didn’t want to see the highlights,” said Chris Stone, 40, who took the day off from his job in advertising to watch the hearing. “I didn’t want to see the spin afterwards. I really was looking for the direct conversations.”A couple of hours in, Mr. Stone said he heard enough to conclude that Mr. Trump — a man he described as “awful” and “dirty” — had tried to manipulate Mr. Comey.“I think this is just the tip of the spear in terms of this investigation,” Mr. Stone said.Seated next to him, Tari Toppe, 42, said she thought there was “possibly” enough information now to pursue impeachment of Mr. Trump.“I was kind of hoping they would get enough out of this to look into obstruction of justice,” said Ms. Toppe, a massage therapist and stay-at-home mother.AdvertisementTheir friend, Kira Kurka, 43, was enjoying a carrot cake muffin and paying close attention for any evidence that Mr. Trump may have colluded with Russia. When Mr. Comey dodged a question on that topic, Ms. Kurka responded with displeasure. “Come on, give an answer,” she said. “That’s why we’re here.”But even Mr. Comey’s nonanswer spoke volumes, Ms. Kurka said. “He has something, he just can’t say, it’s something that has to be in a closed-door session, because it’s something big that could maybe lead to impeachment,” speculated Ms. Kurka, a photographer who said she was procrastinating on work in order to watch the hearing.Mr. Stone, Ms. Toppe and Ms. Kurka all voted for Mrs. Clinton in last year’s presidential election, and all expressed fears about the state of American democracy under Mr. Trump.But the three friends agreed that Mr. Comey’s public testimony was a positive step, a sign that investigators were taking the Russia issue seriously and that wrongdoers might be held accountable.They credited senators from both parties who asked tough questions. They scoffed as Republicans kept mentioning Mrs. Clinton’s email server.Mr. Stone said the hearing had been “a good thing for transparency, for the American people.” And he said patience was needed as the investigation continued to unfold.“Hopefully,” Mr. Stone said, “Americans aren’t expecting that this is going to be a quick conclusion.” MITCH SMITHPHOENIX — A burlesque dancer, a former Army ranger and a Home Depot sales clerk sat around the dark-mahogany bar at Ole Brass Rail on Thursday morning, having a drink at the end of a shift, or filling their stomachs at the start of a workday. The 18 television sets on the walls customarily show Diamondbacks or Cardinals games. But not Thursday morning.AdvertisementMr. Comey was testifying before Congress, so the bartender, Kathie Larsyn, tuned in to ABC and put up the volume, figuring everyone wanted to hear what Mr. Comey had to say.At the bar, located on a busy corner between a check-cashing center and a Mexican restaurant, the political persuasions vary, but many regulars are united by their distaste for politics these days. The dancer, Kitty Victorian, voted for Hillary Clinton. The ranger, Abel Candelaria, voted for Donald Trump. The salesman, Terry Gaines, did not bother to cast a ballot last November.In this slice of Arizona, a state that last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 1996, the debate around the bar on Thursday was not about red or blue ideology, or about who was right — Mr. Comey or Mr. Trump. There was only sporadic interest in what was being said and instead a dismissive sense about politics in general.“The whole thing is a circus,” said Mr. Gaines, 64, referring to the senators, who are “beholden to their constituents,” and Mr. Comey, “who probably has his own agenda.” Then, he returned to his plate of hash browns and scrambled eggs.The only time when everyone seemed to be paying attention was when Senator John McCain of Arizona asked Mr. Comey about his investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s emails.“Aren’t we talking about Russia?” Ms. Larsyn asked, her eyes trained on the screen.In the bar, at least, the conversation veered toward Russia and whether it interfered in the elections, which “pretty much everyone agrees is pretty crazy,” Ms. Larsyn said.Mr. Gaines recalled the weekly duck-and-cover in school when he was a child and the fear that he and everyone had of a nuclear attack by the former Soviet Union.“Now, they say Russia influenced the elections for president of the United States,” he said, shaking his head.Don Cross, 82, who was sipping a Budweiser, is a registered Republican who voted for Mrs. Clinton “because the alternative was terrible.” Nothing since the election has made him feel better about politics.AdvertisementThese days, “I’m a skeptical,” he said. “I don’t trust any of these people on TV. I don’t trust their motives.” FERNANDA SANTOSAn earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to a Home Depot sales clerk in Phoenix. The clerk, Terry Gaines, is a man.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseFew, if any, literary philosophers have had as much influence on American business and politics as Ayn Rand, especially now that Donald J. Trump occupies the White House.President Trump named Rand his favorite writer and “The Fountainhead” his favorite novel. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has cited “Atlas Shrugged” as a favorite work, and the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, said the book “really had an impact on me.”As Ray Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest hedge fund, put it in a recent essay, “her books pretty well capture the mind-set” of the Trump administration. “This new administration hates weak, unproductive, socialist people and policies,” he wrote, “and it admires strong, can-do profit makers.”In business, Rand’s influence has been especially pronounced in Silicon Valley, where her overarching philosophy that “man exists for his own sake, that the pursuit of his own happiness is his highest moral purpose, that he must not sacrifice himself to others, nor sacrifice others to himself,” as she described it in a 1964 Playboy interview, has an obvious appeal for self-made entrepreneurs. Last year Vanity Fair anointed her the most influential figure in the technology industry, surpassing Steve Jobs.And then there’s the scandal-engulfed Trump administration, where devotion to Rand’s teaching has done little to advance the president’s legislative agenda.Though people close to Mr. Kalanick told me this week that he has distanced himself from many of Rand’s precepts while undergoing an intense period of personal reassessment, they all acknowledged that she’d had a profound influence on his development. Few companies have been as closely identified with Rand’s philosophy as Uber.Uber disrupted a complacent, highly regulated and often corrupt taxi industry on a global scale, an achievement Rand’s heroes Howard Roark and Dagny Taggart would surely have admired. Many of her ideas were embedded in Uber’s code of values. Mr. Kalanick used the original cover art for “The Fountainhead” as his Twitter avatar until 2013 (when he exchanged it for an image of Alexander Hamilton, and then, in May, for one of himself).“Rand’s entrepreneur is the Promethean hero of capitalism,” said Lawrence E. Cahoone, professor of philosophy at the College of the Holy Cross, whose lecture on Rand is part of his Great Courses series, “The Modern Political Tradition.” “But she never really explores how a dynamic entrepreneur actually runs a business.”“She was a script and fiction writer,” he continued. “She was motivated by an intense hatred of communism, and she put those things together very effectively. She can be very inspirational, especially to entrepreneurs. But she was by no means an economist. I don’t think her work can be used as a business manual.”Representatives of Uber and Mr. Kalanick declined to comment.Rand’s defenders insist that the problems for Mr. Kalanick and others influenced by Rand aren’t that they embraced her philosophy, but rather that they didn’t go far enough.Yaron Brook, executive chairman of the Ayn Rand Institute and a former finance professor at Santa Clara University, who teaches seminars on business leadership and ethics from an Objectivist perspective, said, “Few business people have actually read her essays and philosophy and studied her in depth.” Mr. Brook said that while Mr. Kalanick “was obviously talented and energetic and a visionary, he took superficial inspiration from her ideas and used her philosophy to justify his obnoxiousness.”He emphasized that Rand would never have tolerated sexual harassment or any kind of mistreatment of employees. Rand “had enormous respect for people who worked hard and did a good job, whether a secretary or a railroad worker,” he said. “Her heroes ran businesses with employees who were very loyal because they were treated fairly. Of course, some people had to be fired. But she makes a big deal out of the virtue of justice, which applies in business as well as politics.”And even though “she’d celebrate what Travis did with the taxi industry, showing the world how all those regulations made no sense, she also believed there are rules of justice that do make sense and she supported,” he said. “You can’t just run over all the regulations you don’t happen to like.”Mr. Brook complained that Rand’s critics are quick to point to her followers’ failures, but rarely mention their successes. He cited the example of John A. Allison IV, the much-admired former head of BB&T Corporation, a regional bank in the Southeast that he built into one of the nation’s largest before he stepped down in 2008. Mr. Allison handed out copies of “Atlas Shrugged” to senior executives and is a major donor to the Ayn Rand Institute. He incorporated many of Rand’s teachings into his 2014 book, “The Leadership Crisis and the Free Market Cure.”“John is a gentleman and he actually studied Rand’s works in depth,” Mr. Brook said. “He couldn’t be more different from Travis.”Mr. Allison has called for abolishing the Federal Reserve, while acknowledging that so drastic a step is unlikely. He has met with Mr. Trump at the White House and has been widely mentioned as a potential successor to Janet L. Yellen as Fed chief.Despite Rand’s pervasive influence and continuing popularity on college campuses, relatively few people embrace her version of extreme libertarianism. Former President Barack Obama, in a 2012 Rolling Stone interview, criticized her “narrow vision” and described her work “as one of those things that a lot of us, when we were 17 or 18 and feeling misunderstood, we’d pick up.”She’s also dismissed by most serious academics. “Mention Ayn Rand to a group of academic philosophers and you’ll get laughed out of the room,” Mr. Cahoone said. “But I think there’s something to be said for Rand. She takes Nietzschean individualism to an extreme, but she’s undeniably inspirational.”As the mysterious character John Galt proclaims near the end of “Atlas Shrugged”: “Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate, the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish, in lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but have never been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it is possible, it’s yours.”But Rand has little to say about making the transition from this kind of heroic entrepreneurial vision to a mature corporation with many stakeholders, a problem many company founders have confronted and struggled with, whether or not they’ve read or been influenced by her. “She never really had to manage anything,” Mr. Cahoone said. “She was surrounded by people who saw her as a cult figure. She didn’t have employees, she had worshipers.”For his part, Mr. Kalanick is said to have turned this summer from Rand to what is considered one of the greatest dramatic works in the English language, Shakespeare’s “Henry V” — a play in which the young, reckless and wayward Prince Hal matures into one of England’s most revered and beloved monarchs.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe political success or failure of the Trump administration will be determined in large part by the answer to a simple question. Is Trump’s ability to give voice to the anger and resentment of his constituents adequate to offset his broken promises and what his enemies trumpet as his failure to improve the lives of those who voted for him?I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be 100 miles away from Washington’s swamp, spending my evening with all of you and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people.His goal, of course, was not only to ally himself with the crowd against the black-tie-wearing media celebrating at the Washington Hilton, but to goad and troll his opponents.Many liberal Democrats think that Trump’s taunting rhetoric will soon wear thin. According to this view, as decent jobs increasingly demand college degrees, as automation continues to decimate manufacturing employment and as voters lose key benefits of the liberal welfare state (pared down health coverage under a new Republican program, for example), support for Trump will fade away.Murphy may be proven prescient. But there are a number of ways for Trump to maintain support among his voters without delivering the tangible economic or social benefits he promised.First of all, the bulk of Trump’s supporters have nowhere else to go, nor do they want to go anywhere. They experience themselves as living in a different world from liberals and Democrats.Their animosity toward the left, and the left’s animosity toward them, is entrenched.“President Trump reminds distrustful citizens of liberal institutions’ disinterest in, and disrespect for, challenges in their own lives,” Arthur Lupia, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, wrote in response to my inquiry about Trump’s appeal.Instead of the type of conflict “largely based off of tribal affiliations,” Abramowitz and Webster find thatThe rise of negative affect and incivility in American politics is closely connected with the rise of ideological polarization among the public as well as among political elites. Democrats and Republicans dislike each other today because they disagree with each other about many issues and especially about the fundamental question of the role of government in American society. It is very hard to disagree without being disagreeable when there are so many issues on which we disagree and the disagreements on many of these issues are so deep.More succinctly, they write,Rational dislike of the other party may be more difficult to overcome than irrational dislike.When the candidates are relatively divergent, there is virtually no chance that partisans will cross party lines and vote for the candidate of the opposite party.The near certainty that partisans will not switch to the opposition gives Trump an unexpected level of freedom in his policy choices. As Rogowski put it:High levels of ideological conflict lead partisan voters to make decisions that place increased emphasis on their partisan ties, and less emphasis on the relative degree of congruence between their policy views and the candidates’ platforms.In an email, Rogowski elaborated:Most Americans are sorted into one of the two major-party camps, and their party membership is an important part of their identities. For Americans who identify as Republicans, voting for a Democratic candidate would be inconsistent with their identity — and the same goes for Democratic-identifiers considering a vote for a Republican candidate.In this environment, Rogowski continued,Trump can more or less count on continued support from Republican identifiers and has some freedom of choice on policy issues.In other words, Trump can go either left or right as he betrays his campaign promises — as long as his followers believe that he is standing with them and is against what they’re against.There are also more subtle changes working to Trump’s advantage.Just as partisan ideological divisions and animosities are starker and starker, so too are divisions in the ways that men and women conduct their daily lives in red and blue regions of the United States.In “Spatial Aspects of the American ‘Culture War’: The Two Dimensions of US Family Demography and the Presidential Elections, 1968-2016,” the authors write:The map of the American "Culture War" is not only in evidence in the local voting patterns, but just as markedly so in its family demography.Voting for Democratic presidential candidates, Lesthaeghe and Neidert found, correlates with a number of key demographic variables: an increase in the percentage of white, non-Hispanic women between the ages of 25 to 34 who have never married; abortions per 1000 live births; older mothers (age at first birth of 28 or over); and the percentage of households with same or different sex cohabitants.Lesthaeghe writes:The SDT starts in the 1960s with a series of multifaceted revolutions. First, there was the contraceptive revolution, with the introduction of hormonal contraception and far more efficient IUDs; second, there was the sexual revolution, with declining ages at first sexual intercourse; and third, there was the sex revolution, questioning the sole breadwinner household model and the gendered division of labor that accompanied it. These three "revolutions" fit within the framework of an overall rejection of authority, the assertion of individual freedom of choice (autonomy), and an overhaul of the normative structure. The overall outcome of these shifts with respect to fertility was the postponement of childbearing: mean ages at first parenthood rise again, opportunities for childbearing are lost due to higher divorce rates, the share of childless ever-partnered women increases, and higher parity births (four or more) become rare.The demographic constituency described by Lesthaeghe is the liberal, urban, cosmopolitan, well-educated elite, embodied, in many respects, not only by Hillary Clinton but by much of official Washington — the attendees at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner so conspicuously shunned by Trump.At the end of their recent essay, Lesthaeghe and Neidert askCan we conclude that an era of conservative backlash has been inaugurated by the election of Trump?Their answer is that it’s too early to tell. They note that while issues change with each election,the relative positions of states have been very stable since the mid-1990s and very predictable on the basis of the SDT pattern at the onset. Very much the same holds for counties. Evidently, the map of the American "Culture War" is not only in evidence in the local voting patterns, but just as markedly so in its family demography.The second chart shows the actual line up of states in 2016, from reddest (Utah and Wyoming) at the top to bluest (Massachusetts) at the bottom.What can we learn about Trump and the persistence of his appeal from research about intensified partisan animosity, the divide over the second demographic transition, Trump’s fervid rally audiences, the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner and political identity?Over the past 50 years, overarching and underlying conflicts about morality, family, autonomy, religious conviction, fairness and even patriotism have been forced into two relatively weak vessels, the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. The political system is not equipped to resolve these social and cultural conflicts, which produce a gamut of emotions, often outside our conscious awareness. Threatening issues — conflicts over race, immigration, sexuality and many other questions that cut to the core of how we see ourselves and the people around us — cannot be contained in ordinary political speech, even as these issues dominate our political decision-making.It is Trump’s willingness to violate the boundaries of conventional discourse that has granted him immunity to mainstream criticism. Pretty much everything he does that goes overboard helps him. He is given a free hand by those who feel in their gut that he is fighting their fight — that he is their leader and their defender. As the enemy of their enemies, President Trump is their friend.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementThe clearest pattern is simply that Trump has regained ground since Clinton’s post-convention peak.With the odds now favoring a narrow Clinton victory, what would the ramifications be after Nov. 8 if she beats Trump by three or fewer percentage points?In fact, the idea of the paranoid style as a force in politics would have little contemporary relevance or historical value if it were applied only to men with profoundly disturbed minds. It is the use of paranoid modes of expression by more or less normal people that makes the phenomenon significant.The paranoia of the Trump campaign has found expression in the accusation that the Republican establishment in the primaries and now Hillary Clinton and her allies in the general election are committed to rigging the vote to prevent Trump’s rightful accession to the White House.I won South Carolina. I won it by a landslide, like a massive landslide, and now they’re trying to pick off those delegates one by one. That’s not the way democracy is supposed to work. And you know, they offer them trips. They offer them all sorts of things. And you’re allowed to do that. And you’re allowed to offer trips and you can buy all these votes. What kind of a system is this? Now, I’m an outsider and I came into the system. And I’m winning the votes by millions of votes. But the system is rigged. It’s crooked.Big business, elite media and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over everything she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings.It’s easy to see why. Hofstadter describes the paranoid style asmade up of certain preoccupations and fantasies: the megalomaniac view of oneself as the Elect, wholly good, abominably persecuted, yet assured of ultimate triumph; the attribution of gigantic and demonic powers to the adversary.Trump’s strongest supporters do in fact feel abominably persecuted. They are unlikely to fade away gracefully.AdvertisementA narrow Trump loss could be problematic in that some significant percentage of Republican activists would believe Trump’s claims that the electoral system was rigged against him.“This is a potentially dangerous outcome for the country,” Masket added.Masket is not the only one worrying that the legitimacy of the election — and potentially of future elections — could be compromised.AdvertisementNorman Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute warned that if the outcome is a close win for Hillary Clinton:It will reinforce the view among Trump populists that the election was stolen and he was stabbed in the back, which will make the task of party leaders that much harder, while creating further delegitimization of the process.I think we have widespread voter fraud, but the first thing that Trump needs to do is begin talking about it constantly.Stone’s advice was that Trump should say,I am leading in Florida. The polls all show it. If I lose Florida, we will know that there’s voter fraud. If there’s voter fraud, this election will be illegitimate, the election of the winner will be illegitimate, we will have a constitutional crisis, widespread civil disobedience, and the government will no longer be the government.The Trump-Stone message is resonating.U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies are probing what they see as a broad covert Russian operation in the United States to sow public distrust in the upcoming presidential election and in U.S. political institutions.Masket believes that a spreading suspicion among Trump supporters that the election outcome was fixed could have severe repercussions after Nov. 8:Part of the reason that our nation has been relatively free of political violence is that losers of contests have nearly always accepted their loss and opposed the victor through legitimate means, such as challenging them in future elections or working against their agenda in Congress. The 2000 election was very close and obviously very controversial, but Al Gore nonetheless conceded after the Supreme Court’s ruling. Were Trump and his supporters to continue to argue that the election had been stolen from them, it would mean that they reject nonviolent solutions to political differences. It could jeopardize future elections, undermine the legitimacy of the federal government, and create an environment in which political violence becomes more likely.He’s certainly creating a movement that will continue independently of him even if he does fold at some point.If Trump continues to be a focal point for alt-right ideas, those voters will demand a voice, either in the Republican Party or outside it. Can the conservative and mainstream Republicans unite effectively and keep the alt-right from steering the party?The conviction that Democrats and the Washington establishment will rig the election in Clinton’s favor is by no means limited to the alt-right. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, have both promoted the idea.I mean, if you assume that she is a crook, as he says, if you assume that she lies, as he says, why would you expect her to have an honest election?Frankly, we think that the situation in the country — just like with the Democratic National Committee’s primaries — is a situation where if you’re relying on the Justice Department to ensure the security of the elections, we have to be worried.AdvertisementIn the New Jersey election in 2004, 3,611,691 votes were cast and there were “eight substantiated cases of individuals knowingly casting invalid votes,” Justin Levitt, the study’s author, who is now deputy assistant attorney general in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, wrote. He calculated that illegal votes amounted to 0.0004 percent of the total.As could be expected, the Brennan study has done little or nothing to tamp down accusations of election fraud from the alt-right, and indeed from Trump himself.Fifty-two years ago, writing in the year of the Johnson-Goldwater election, Hofstadter proved remarkably prescient: The right wing, he argued,feels dispossessed: America has been largely taken away from them and their kind, though they are determined to try to repossess it and to prevent the final destructive act of subversion.Should Trump fail to eke out a victory, his already deeply suspicious supporters are likely to double down on allegations that they have been cheated out of what is rightfully theirs. As Hofstadter put it:Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In American experience ethnic and religious conflict have plainly been a major focus for militant and suspicious minds of this sort, but class conflicts also can mobilize such energies. Perhaps the central situation conducive to the diffusion of the paranoid tendency is a confrontation of opposed interests which are (or are felt to be) totally irreconcilable, and thus by nature not susceptible to the normal political processes of bargain and compromise.Hofstadter wrote that at a time when polarization was a minor factor in politics. The confrontation of irreconcilably opposed interests is far more hostile today, which Hofstadter foresaw with such focused intensity that it is worth quoting him at length:The situation becomes worse when the representatives of a particular social interest — perhaps because of the very unrealistic and unrealizable nature of its demands — are shut out of the political process. Having no access to political bargaining or the making of decisions, they find their original conception that the world of power is sinister and malicious fully confirmed. They see only the consequences of power — and this through distorting lenses — and have no chance to observe its actual machinery. A distinguished historian has said that one of the most valuable things about history is that it teaches us how things do not happen. It is precisely this kind of awareness that the paranoid fails to develop. He has a special resistance of his own, of course, to developing such awareness, but circumstances often deprive him of exposure to events that might enlighten him — and in any case he resists enlightenment.The author, most recently, of “The Age Of Austerity: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics” and a contributing opinion writer.See More »Go to Home Page »Advertisement“Rhythm & Power” celebrates the Latin music that was forged in New York City from diverse Caribbean, Pan-American, African and European styles, and savvily marketed under the catchall term salsa. Musicians initially disliked the word; they preferred more specific designations like rumba or bolero. But using “salsa” could “put everything under one roof,” said the Dominican musician Johnny Pacheco, who was the chief executive and creative director of Fania Records, which popularized the term. Calling the music salsa blurred specific national origins, drawing a broader audience in the New York City melting pot.Salsa in its heyday — from the 1960s into the 1980s — was simultaneously an outlet for immigrant traditions, an experiment, an evolving art form, a cultural bulwark, a commercial product and, at its most idealistic, a voice for social change. It was also purposefully irresistible dance music: movement for a movement. “Rhythm & Power” touches on all of those roles.Like so much art of the African diaspora, salsa is made not for typical museum-style contemplation, but for motion and participation. Entering the compact but copious exhibition, visitors are greeted by a video projection displaying dance steps, perhaps to carry them through the rest of the show, which has salsa playing unobtrusively through speakers. Around the room, artifacts from musicians — instruments, album covers, stage wear, sheet music — are displayed, pointedly, alongside photographs of dancing audiences and memorabilia from dancers.AdvertisementSalsa was never short on bling. The exhibition includes Celia Cruz’s gold platform shoes, Marc Anthony’s microphone stand (with a big silvery crucifix built in) and Tito Puente’s red sequined tailcoat and his multicolored timbales, looking like psychedelic stained-glass windows. Other objects commemorate salsa milestones, like Eddie Palmieri’s Grammy Award for “The Sun of Latin Music,” the album that inaugurated the Grammy category for Latin music in 1975, and a 1973 poster for an all-star Carnegie Hall performance of Larry Harlow’s “Hommy,” salsa’s answer to the Who’s “Tommy.”Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementUnderfoot in the exhibition’s main room is a gallery-length map of salsa’s global sources, traced back to rhythms and dances from Cuba, Puerto Rico, Spain, Togo and Ghana, and connected to the jazz and R&B that would give salsa its New York City brawniness. Like the exhibition, it packs broad historical ambition into its limited space.The show concentrates on salsa’s past and on its New York City home turf; the music’s worldwide repercussions are beyond its scope. “Rhythm & Power” glances back to salsa’s New York City predecessor: the mambo craze of the 1950s, driven by an influx of Afro-Cuban musicians and ideas in the years before the embargo on Cuba. Salsa’s emergence was catalyzed by new migration — primarily the surge of Puerto Ricans to New York in the 1950s — and by the ferment of the 1960s, as well as by the cross-cultural encounters with neighbors that New York City makes inevitable.For a shining moment, during the 1960s and the 1970s, salsa songs addressed all that their primary listeners faced: discrimination, inequality, crime. (R&B songwriters like Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder, Sly Stone and Curtis Mayfield were making similar choices.) A wall of the exhibition is devoted to salsa in the early 1970s, when songwriters moved far beyond love ballads and party tunes. Musicians like Willie Colón, Rubén Blades and Ray Barretto linked their music to Latin pride and Latin struggles, both in the United States and across the Americas.Although Mr. Colón, Mr. Blades and others have persisted with politically aware songwriting, in recent years hip-hop and reggaeton have largely seized the mantle of urban realism. Salsa has survived commercially as Latin pop: in the form of love songs called salsa romántica. But, as the exhibition shows with its images of mass salsa gatherings in the 21st century, people are still dancing to it.Wisely, “Rhythm & Power” reaches beyond the museum. Free concerts presented with SummerStage will feature music by the longtime salsa performers Joe Bataan (July 21 at Thompson Park in Staten Island), Frankie Negrón (July 29 at St. Mary’s Park in the Bronx) and Andy Montañez (Aug. 11 at East River Park in Manhattan), with dance workshops before each show.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseHaving reached the top of a major corporation and amassed a fortune, chief executives often wonder: What’s next?After Donald J. Trump, the answer may well be a run for the White House.Mr. Trump had no political or military experience, the traditional routes to high political office. Virtually his only qualification was his business career, and a checkered one at that, considering his own brush with personal bankruptcy.“There is this sense that if Trump got it, why shouldn’t they?” said David Gergen, co-director of the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard Kennedy School and an adviser to four presidents. “They’ve been more successful, they have more experience, and they’ve run a public company, which is more equivalent to what a president does than a private company” like the Trump Organization.Stu Loeser, once the press secretary for Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor who considered a presidential run last year, concurred. “If you run a company that has employed tens of thousands of people, and generated lots of profit and been undeniably successful, and you look at a sitting president who, to be honest, a lot of business people don’t have much respect for, you think, why not me?” he said.Mr. Loeser now runs his own strategic consulting firm, and told me he has clients who are business executives considering a run for high public office. “I can’t tell you their names, obviously,” he said.Boldface corporate names widely discussed as contenders for the next Democratic presidential nomination include chief executives like Howard Schultz of Starbucks, Robert A. Iger of Disney and Marc Benioff of Salesforce.com, along with Sheryl Sandberg, the Facebook chief operating officer, and Oprah Winfrey, chairwoman and chief executive of Harpo Inc., which owns half of the Oprah Winfrey Network.All deny they’re running, or even seriously considering it. But everyone demurs so far ahead of the first primaries, as did Hillary Clinton four years ago, and it hasn’t stopped anyone from speculating. That’s especially the case for people who, appalled by the Trump administration, can hardly wait for the next campaign.“I feel many of these chief executives are responding to a public longing for a strongman, or woman, a strong leader,” Mr. Gergen said. “There’s a sense that’s why Trump got elected. You’re seeing the same thing in Europe, in Asia, in a long list of countries. People are dissatisfied with standard politicians. Military types and business people with a strong track record offer an attractive alternative.”Apart from proven business experience, they have widespread name recognition or identification with major consumer brands. And they have enough money to finance their own campaigns.I’ve spoken this week to multiple people who have at least discussed the possibility of running for office with Mr. Schultz and Mr. Iger. (All declined to be named discussing what were private conversations.)Mr. Schultz, 63, with a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion, came close to making a bid last year, but backed out after concluding it would be very difficult to defeat Mrs. Clinton, who seemed to have the Democratic nomination all but locked up and at the time seemed likely to win the presidency.Those circumstances have obviously changed drastically. With Mr. Trump in office, the next Democratic race appears wide open, and many friends and potential donors are urging Mr. Schultz to run.Mr. Schultz seemed to pave the way in December, when he announced he’d step down as Starbucks’ chief executive this April. But he continues to be actively involved in the expansion of the company’s high-end “roasteries” as well as its social-impact initiatives.“Howard Schultz is definitely being pursued,” Mr. Gergen said. “He has a powerful social conscience. He comes from a very different place than the kind of chief executive with a big ego who wants the trappings of presidential power.”Mr. Schultz declined to comment.Last year Mr. Iger, 66, told The Hollywood Reporter that “a lot of people — a lot — have urged me to seek political office,” and last week the entertainment publication fueled renewed speculation when it reported that Mr. Iger had discussed the possibility with Mr. Bloomberg.People who have discussed a possible presidential run with Mr. Iger told me that his discussion with Mr. Bloomberg, some years ago, focused more on a possible run for mayor of New York City, where Mr. Iger has an apartment. New York has long welcomed nonresident candidates like Mrs. Clinton, so Mr. Iger’s California residency isn’t seen as an obstacle.Both Mr. Iger and Mr. Bloomberg declined to comment.Whether any of those jobs, including the presidency, would actually be better than being chief executive of Disney remains an open question. After earlier announcing his retirement, Mr. Iger recently said he was willing to extend his contract, which would eliminate the need for any high-profile exit strategy, at least for the next few years.Campaign buttons emblazoned with “Vote for Benioff” and “Marc Benioff for President” circulated two years ago at Salesforce’s annual Dreamforce conference in San Francisco, which draws hundreds of thousands of participants and has been viewed by some as a likely launching pad for any Benioff campaign.Like Mr. Schultz, Mr. Benioff has pursued an ambitious social and philanthropic agenda. He started “Pledge 1%,” the Salesforce model of donating 1 percent of their product, 1 percent of their equity and 1 percent of employees’ time to help nonprofits achieve their missions — a practice that Salesforce says is now followed by 1,400 companies. Mr. Benioff was an outspoken defender of gay and lesbian rights and helped create a network of corporate leaders to oppose bills limiting L.G.B.T. rights in states like Indiana, Georgia and North Carolina.Mr. Benioff, 52, whose stake in Salesforce alone is worth over $3 billion and who has a net worth estimated by Forbes at over $4 billion, has also written three books, including the best-selling “Behind the Cloud.” Still, he’s hardly a household name, and is best known in business and technology circles.Asked for comment, Mr. Benioff said, “Business is the greatest platform for change.”Ms. Sandberg’s coming nationwide tour to promote the new book she co-authored, “Option B,” which describes coming to terms with her husband’s sudden death in 2015 and other stories of coping with adversity, has fueled speculation (and possible wishful thinking) that the book could be a springboard for a presidential campaign.As a billionaire ($1.47 billion, Forbes estimates) and a key executive of the hugely successful Facebook, Ms. Sandberg already has enormous name recognition. Her previous book, “Lean In,” was a best-seller and inspired a rallying cry for women. She has worked in politics before, as an assistant to the former Treasury secretary Lawrence H. Summers, and was a donor to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. She was considered a candidate for a top post in any Clinton administration.Ms. Sandberg has denied any immediate presidential ambitions, insisting that she loves her job at Facebook. At age 47, she’s under no pressure to run this election cycle.(Widespread reports that the Facebook founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would run for president seem even more far-fetched. The speculation appears to have been set off by a Bloomberg News report that Mr. Zuckerberg would retain voting control of Facebook even if he sold his shares and served in a government position for up to two years. Mr. Zuckerberg has denied any interest in running.)Then there’s Ms. Winfrey, 63, who for many Democrats might amount to the dream candidate: She has unrivaled star power, is an African-American woman, has run a successful business, and has a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion.“That’s what I thought,” Ms. Winfrey replied. “I thought, ‘Oh gee, I don’t have the experience, I don’t know enough.’ And now I’m thinking, ‘Oh! Oh.’”But when Mr. Rubenstein began to ask, “As you consider whether you are going to run for president of the United States or not. ..,” she interjected, “No, that won’t be happening.”While some may disparage Mr. Trump’s credentials for the presidency, he did bring to his campaign a level of recognition that will be hard for other executives to replicate, with the possible exception of Ms. Winfrey.“Trump spent decades building his brand and his image as a successful businessman,” Mr. Loeser said. “He was the star of one of the most-watched television shows in America. If you landed at La Guardia, you saw the Trump jet. If you went to Las Vegas, the tallest building in town has Trump’s name emblazoned on it.”Mr. Gergen agreed. “Trump has been a performer for years,” he said. “Most chief executives aren’t performers.”And chief executives “aren’t prepared for the scrutiny,” Mr. Gergen said. “It’s especially tough to work with the press. They’re used to having layers of people around them, but in politics you’re out there dealing with reporters every day.”“Look at Rex Tillerson,” he added, referring to the Exxon chief turned secretary of state. “He’s extremely well regarded in corporate circles, but he’s having trouble with the press.”Mr. Loeser said he was helping clients assess the kind of attacks they could expect in a hard-fought campaign.“You have to anticipate how they’ll come after you, because they will,” Mr. Loeser said. “Oprah is one of the most beloved people in America. But has anyone gone through every minute and every hour of every show she’s ever done to see if there’s anything controversial? Because someone will.”Mr. Gergen suggested that some chief executives might want to lower their sights. “I think business chief executives tend to make better governors or mayors,” he said. “They can be more pragmatic and less ideological. Some of the names you’re hearing, I have trouble picturing them with the Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders wing of the party. I wouldn’t call that a match made in heaven.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementInvestors have seemingly been oblivious to claims of Russian interference in the election, the firing of a director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the appointment of a special prosecutor. As the second quarter ends this week, 2017 has so far been a banner year, with major indexes hitting records.But as the bull market rolls on, some see storm clouds on the horizon. “Valuations are high and it’s one of the longest and largest bull markets in history,” said James Stack, president of InvesTech Research. “Bull markets don’t last forever. So the question is, when will the music stop?”Investors “are on a knife’s edge,” said Michael J. Kelly, global head of asset allocation for PineBridge Investments. With many still scarred by the financial crisis, “they see a potential disaster around every corner.”AdvertisementAdvertisementAnd then there’s Mr. Trump himself, whose unpredictability and erratic behavior still have the potential to rattle markets.So I asked some prominent investors and market analysts whether they were pulling back from stocks, and how they viewed these latest developments.There’s no question that these market darlings, which together have accounted for a disproportionate percentage of the market’s gains, are expensive, and getting more so. Price-to-earnings ratios range from 38 (Facebook) to 184 (Amazon). Their market caps are so huge they dominate the indexes. They show up not only in so-called growth funds, but also in value and low-volatility funds. Should they embark on a sustained plunge, a bear market could quickly follow.The tremor in June was “a warning shot across the bow,” said Bill Smead, the founder of Smead Capital Management in Seattle. The Faang stocks “are showing all the classic signs of being overcooked,” he added. “What magazine hasn’t had Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg on the cover? There’s no question this can end very badly. But the market can stay irrational for a very long time. My sense is that there’s one big blowout rally left in these stocks.”Mr. Stack noted that the Faang stocks had brief sell-offs last June and October, only to rebound. Still, he said, “the Faang stocks will be among the hardest hit in the next bear market due to the amount of money that flowed into them and the high expectations that have driven them higher.”AdvertisementBut like Mr. Smead, he doesn’t expect that to be imminent. “We’re not buying them, but we’re not necessarily saying sell,” Mr. Stack said. He urged investors to rebalance portfolios that have become too heavily weighted in these stocks.Everyone I interviewed agreed that the Fed is the most likely catalyst for the next bear market, but that may still be years away.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Historically it’s difficult to find a bear market that wasn’t triggered to some extent by the Fed,” Mr. Smead said. “But I don’t think unwinding the long bond position as gradually as they’re going to will have a significant impact. What would have an impact is if the Fed is forced to raise rates faster than everyone anticipates. The Fed has prepared investors for one more rate hike this year. That’s where the potential surprise could come. If we see two or three by year’s end, we’re going to see definite headwinds and maybe a market top of some significance.”Mr. Kelly said the Fed had plenty of room to maneuver before stocks start to be affected. “We just had a once-in-70-year crisis that left very long scars. Businesses basically didn’t invest for eight years. In tightening, the Fed is acknowledging that a monetary policy built on a very fragile economic backdrop is no longer appropriate. But we’re just getting to the point now where people are crawling out of their shells and we’re seeing more normal economic activity.”Mr. Kelly said bull markets typically last another three to four years after such a point in the economic cycle, and can even go another eight or nine. “Bull markets die from excess, not old age,” he said.Mr. Smead agreed. “There’s no question we’re getting closer to normal rates,” he said. “That will be difficult for the stock market when it happens. People will be less willing to be adventurous. But that’s still years away.”Over at InvesTech Research, “we’re still quite bullish,” Mr. Stack said. “We’re not increasing cash reserves. We are rebalancing towards more defensive and out-of-favor sectors, like consumer staples and health care.”“The risks don’t lie with potential charges of obstruction of justice or even impeachment,” Mr. Stack said. “For political mayhem to upset the economic apple cart, it has to irreparably damage confidence at the consumer and business level. So far we don’t see that happening. Consumer confidence and consumer sentiment measures are at 16-year highs, and C.E.O. confidence in April was the highest since 2004.”Nor have investors given up hope that a Republican Congress will still deliver business-friendly corporate tax reform and a pro-growth overhaul of the tax code, despite the president’s troubles.At the same time, “Trump shouldn’t be looking to the market for vindication,” Mr. Smead said. “I wouldn’t call it a Trump rally. He’s basically riding on the Obama years. “AdvertisementHis bottom line: “We don’t pay much attention to politics, and that’s been a good thing.”See More »Go to Home Page »