AdvertisementSupported byThe ConversationAnne-Marie Slaughter, who served as a top adviser in Hillary Clinton’s State Department, said “It will not stop the war” and “is illegal under international law.” Yet she praised it because “it at least draws a line somewhere and says enough.” What do you think?So I guess I think that given the guy we’ve got in the White House, it was about the best we could have hoped for. How about you?The strike really was classic Trump: A show of force mainly for the sake of show, without any strategy behind it. Iran has entrenched itself in Syria alongside Russia, while Israel is quietly preparing for war on its northern front. The administration looks likely to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal next month, but little thought seems to have been given to what comes after. In all, just another reminder that the Trump disaster is global.Now, let’s be cowards and talk about domestic issues. Can we start with Paul Ryan? You wrote a wonderful column about what a weenie he’s being by bailing out at this crucial moment. But I think we still disagree about his overall career. I see him as a guy who pretended to be all about balanced budgets but was really always just going for the tax cuts and screw the deficit. Same thing with Bush. Same thing with Reagan. Seems to be a pattern.I agree that if Ryan had control of … the world … he would pass a balanced budget with low taxes and slashed entitlements. But the reason he can’t do that isn’t just the Democrats. It’s all his own party members, who are well aware their constituents would go bonkers if they tried to cut Social Security or Medicare. Pretending that’s going to happen is just faking.It would probably be good for our politics in general if we just owned up to the fact that we aren’t going to get our fiscal virginity back and have a real argument about spending priorities rather than a fake one about budgetary virtue. We’re not going to pay down the debt in our lifetimes. That doesn’t mean we can’t have a thriving economy to make sure we’re able to finance it.So that’s my pro-Comey thought. On the other hand, I came of age during the J. Edgar Hoover period, when the idea of a we-rule-the-world F.B.I. was very scary. And Comey is a self-centric dude who is not the ideal person to run an agency that has so much power.My third thought is that whenever I mull the Clinton-Comey story, I return to the fact that Anthony Weiner changed the course of American history. Yipes.I was never a Comey fan: I wrote a long editorial for The Wall Street Journal opposing his nomination as F.B.I. director back when Barack Obama appointed him in 2013. Comey’s behavior in 2016 was a long series of legal misjudgments and political blunders that wound up costing Hillary Clinton the election.That said, I fear that Comey is damaging himself — and the credible case he makes against the president — by putting his obvious distaste for Trump into the service of selling his book. It allows Trump and his defenders to paint Comey as disgruntled and self-serving. If Trump is a pig, Comey’s a prig. I wonder who comes out looking better to most Americans in that particular contest.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS