AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonWASHINGTON — The Trump administration finally crossed the line for some members of Congress this week, provoking bipartisan umbrage and accompanying pledges to hold top officials accountable.Many thought the day had been far too long in coming. Few thought the galvanizing issue would be weed.“I am obligated to the people of Colorado to take all steps necessary to protect the state of Colorado and their rights,” said Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado, a conservative member of the Republican leadership who has rarely broken with the Trump White House.He was not the only unhappy Republican. Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said in a statement that she had repeatedly discouraged Mr. Sessions from taking action on marijuana, a move that she called regrettable and disruptive.Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida, a leading Trump ally in the House, said the decision would deny relief to suffering cancer patients, including children. He said the move by Mr. Sessions was “heartless and cold, and shows his desire to pursue an antiquated, disproven dogma instead of the will of the American people. He should focus his energies on prosecuting criminals, not patients.”“Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s decision bulldozes over the will of the American people and insults the democratic process under which majorities of voters in California and in states across the nation supported decriminalization at the ballot box,” she said. “Yet again, Republicans expose their utter hypocrisy in paying lip service to states’ rights while trampling over laws they personally dislike.”She and Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said they would try to use a pending spending package to prevent Mr. Sessions from following through on the plan to overturn an Obama-era policy that made marijuana prohibition a low priority for law enforcement. Mr. Leahy noted that such a provision had previously passed the Senate Appropriations Committee with support from both parties.Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a longtime opponent of offshore drilling who could be facing off against Mr. Scott in a high-profile Senate contest, immediately jumped on the issue.“This plan is an assault on Florida’s economy, our national security, the will of the public and the environment,” Mr. Nelson said. “This proposal defies all common sense, and I will do everything I can to defeat it.”At the White House, the press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said the administration did not intend to start a fight with Mr. Scott but would not shy away from one either.“Just because we may differ on issues from time to time doesn’t mean that we can’t still have an incredibly strong and good relationship,” she said. “We’ll continue those conversations with him and hopefully all come to an agreement.”As for the president’s evolution on marijuana, Ms. Sanders said Mr. Trump “believes in enforcing federal law. That would be his top priority, and that is regardless of what the topic is.”“The people of Colorado spoke — they spoke loudly,” Mr. Gardner said on the Senate floor. “And I believe if the same question were asked today, they would have even more support for the decision they made back several years ago. I agree with President Trump, that this decision should be left up to the people of Colorado.”But the legalization of marijuana has proved to be a job-creating, tourist-attracting, vote-getting success in certain states, with more entertaining the idea. The attorney general and the president may find resistance to their pot policy to be much more potent than they anticipated.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS