AdvertisementSupported byLawmakers from both chambers are now headed to conference, where they will try to work out their differences and emerge with a final bill that can be passed by the House and Senate and then sent to President Trump’s desk by Christmas.Getting a bill signed into law by Mr. Trump remains a top priority of Republican lawmakers, and momentum to get something to his desk quickly remains.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said that lawmakers were working on the bill “so that it comes out very beautifully.”“I call it ‘the mixer,’ he said. “It’s a conference where everyone gets together and they pick all the good things and get rid of the things they don’t like.”And, below, we outline some of the top issues that must be resolved before the legislation can be signed into law.Senate lawmakers, in their bill, seeking additional revenue, brought back the corporate alternative minimum tax and reinstated a limited version of the alternative minimum tax for individuals. The House bill eliminated both versions of the alternative minimum tax.Together, the Senate changes are expected to raise about $173 billion over the next decade. But the possible reinstatement of the corporate alternative minimum tax is eliciting significant blowback from businesses, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing companies, technology companies and pharmaceutical companies, which say it would undermine their ability to use valuable tax credits.The reason: Both bills cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. But the corporate alternative minimum tax is also set at 20 percent. It is devised to ensure that companies cannot use loopholes to avoid paying taxes and requires that companies calculate their taxes under both the corporate rate and the alternative minimum rate and pay the greater amount.By lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent but keeping the alternative minimum tax, Congress is essentially setting a 20 percent floor. Companies that try to use tax breaks to lower their effective tax rate, like the research and development tax credit, would still face the 20 percent alternative minimum tax, nullifying the value of incentives that are supposed to promote research.Lawmakers are scrambling to resolve the issue. While they could simply do away with the corporate alternative minimum tax, the Senate would then have to find additional revenue to ensure the legislation stays within the $1.5 trillion bucket that Congress has created for the tax cuts.One possible solution floating around is to increase the corporate tax rate to 22 percent, rather than 20 percent, which would raise more revenue. But that plan may not sit well with House Republicans, many of whom have been unwavering in their push to lower the rate to 20 percent.The House bill guts a number of itemized deductions while the Senate bill expands them.Mortgage interest deduction• House caps at $500,000; Senate retainsMedical expense deduction• House repeals; Senate expandsTeacher deduction for school supplies; graduate student tuition waver; student loan interest deduction• House repeals all; Senate expands or retains allThe Senate bill allows owners of businesses organized as pass-throughs to deduct 23 percent of their business income.The House bill sets a new 25 percent tax on pass-through businesses and builds guardrails to prevent companies from exploiting the loophole.The Senate bill creates seven income tax brackets: 10 percent, 12 percent, 22 percent, 24 percent, 32 percent, 35 percent and 38.5 percent. Those brackets expire at the end of 2025.The House bill creates four income tax brackets: 12 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent and 39.6 percent. Those brackets are permanent.The House bill ultimately kills the estate tax, which Republicans refer to as the death tax, because it is a tax on wealthy estates that are left to heirs.The Senate bill applies the death tax to fewer people by doubling the exemption to levels to $11 million for individuals and $22 million for couples, but it does not kill the tax.The Senate bill leaves the Johnson Amendment untouched.Repealing the amendment has long been a key priority of the religious right, which views the ban as an example of government hostility to religion in the public square. But such a repeal is opposed by thousands of religious and nonprofit leaders, who warn that it could blur the line between charity and politics.Mr. Trump has pledged to repeal the 1954 ban, and religious groups have said they expect it to be included in the final legislation.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAt the same time, that’s not a complete picture.A 2013 study of red and blue America, conducted well before the seismic events of the last two years, sheds additional light on the Republican electorate and provides a more complicated understanding of contemporary conservatism.The most conservative and most Republican of the three psychological regions — which Rentfrow labels “Cluster 1: Friendly and Conventional” — extends across the northern tier of the United States from Montana to Michigan, down through the Midwest to almost all of the South for a total of 26 states. The accompanying map shows the region in shades of purple.Rentfrow found that the Cluster 1 region isless affluent, has fewer highly educated residents, and is less innovative compared with states in the other regions. States in this region also appeared to have higher levels of social capital and less social tolerance compared with states in other regions. Moreover, friendly and conventional states were more politically conservative and Protestant compared with other regions.Rentfrow and his co-authors write that the regionis defined by moderately high levels of extroversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, moderately low neuroticism, and very low opennessand thatthis configuration of traits portrays the sort of person who is sociable, considerate, dutiful, and traditional.I asked a number of experts in political psychology what they thought about the Rentfrow paper, and their answers ran the gamut from those who support a more empathetic portrayal of Republican voters to those who are adamant in their view that authoritarianism remains a dominant characteristic of those on the right.I started with Rentfrow himself. My question went as follows:Some research shows that Republicans, and Trump voters in particular, score high on measures of authoritarianism and on critical, if not hostile, views of African-Americans and immigrants. How does this fit with your finding that residents of the most Republican region are friendly, sociable and considerate?Rentfrow replied thatindividuals high in authoritarianism score low in openness. So in this sense, the patterns of results we find at the regional level are consistent.Many whites in the South, he argued, abide by an “honor culture.” As longas everyone is respectful and abides by the social norms, everyone is happy and agreeable. But when threats are made against one’s reputation or values, acts of violence and physical aggression are considered appropriate forms of retribution. In some ways, the profile we observe touches on the surface of this profile — the friendly and considerate aspect when all is well. But I think we’re now beginning to see more of the aggressive aspects. I think many people, perhaps especially in this region, have begun to feel threatened by the changes taking place in society and are reacting with anger.Stenner explained this seeming contradiction by noting thatit is a lot easier to be generous and considerate and civic-minded and invested in one’s community if one’s community is full of people much like oneself. The kinds of behaviors we get out of authoritarians depend critically on how and where they have drawn the boundaries of “us” and “them.” They can be very attentive to “us,” but also tend to be very particular about whom “us” includes.John Jost, a professor of psychology and politics at N.Y.U., expands upon the implications of the word “conscientiousness” in describing red state voters:Conscientiousness is correlated with measures of racism, sexism, homophobia, prejudice, authoritarianism, social dominance, and system justification. I suspect that this personality factor has more to do with a need for order or desire for rule-following, which can easily take an authoritarian turn, than other aspects of conscientiousness that we might associate with, say, honesty or integrity.In the opposite corner from Jost, Marc Hetherington, a political scientist at Vanderbilt and a co-author of the 2009 book “Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics,” said he has abandoned use of the word “authoritarian” because he views it as excessively pejorative. In place of authoritarian, Hetherington said he will now use the phrase “fixed worldview.”“The adherence to established traditions, what scholars derisively call conventionalism, is very much a characteristic of high conscientiousness,” Hetherington wrote:Whether you think this is good or bad probably depends on what you think of community norms. In my view, there is a lot of good to many of them. Fixed worldview people want to protect them.Hetherington added a cautionary note:Here is the problem though. If you are perceived as outside that community, the enforcement of those norms isn’t going to feel very good.Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U.’s Stern School of Business, raised a crucial if obvious point: Primary season Trump voters do not represent all Republican voters.We can’t really know, just on the basis of this paper, whether these traits apply to Trump voters. All we can know is that these traits are more common in states and regions that voted for Trump. It is possible that the people who most show the positively valenced personality traits did not have Trump as their first choice in the primary, but then, once the general election came around, most of them voted for the Republican candidate, which is what partisans do in our two party system with very little party switching.Matt Motyl, a political psychologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, argued in an email that in the general election, thetypical Trump voter is not a raging, screaming white nationalist; the typical Trump voter is not much different from the typical Romney, McCain, or Bush voter. They are just ordinary Republicans.There is, however, a subset of Trump supporters “who are extraordinarily vocal in their intolerance and white nationalism,” according to Motyl. These activists have become “the template of the stereotype of Trump voters,” he wrote. “As is the case for many stereotypes,” he added, “there is a grain of truth, but the grain of truth is just that — a grain.”In fact, authoritarian voters with a sense of besieged white identity are more than a “grain” in the Republican electorate.And the clout of the authoritarian, white identity wing of the Republican Party is such that Trump is governing to please this wing first and foremost.From his apocalyptic threats to Kim Jong-un to his call for the firing of protesting N.F.L. players, from his pardon of Joe Arpaio to his defense of pro-Nazi protesters in Charlottesville, Trump has remained the leader of hard-right, white America.This strategy won him the presidency in 2016 when millions of non-authoritarian white Republicans — sympathetic, kind, affectionate, conscientiousness, persevering, thorough and reliable — made a pact with the devil and chose party loyalty over conscience. Who’s to say it won’t work again?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byIn the Trump era, Republicans have been revising their views on right and wrong.In 2011, the Public Religion Research Institute asked voters ifan elected official who commits an immoral act in their personal life can still behave ethically and fulfill their duties in their public and professional life.Every other religious group was less judgmental. Catholics, 49 no, 42, yes; white mainline Protestants: 44 percent no, 38 percent yes; the religiously unaffiliated, 26 no, 63 yes.Are the moral convictions of white evangelical Protestants writ in stone? Apparently not.Five years later, in October, 2016, P.R.R.I. asked the same question. The percentage of white evangelical Protestants who said that a politician who commits an immoral act in their personal life could still behave ethically shot up from 30 to 72 percent. The percentage saying such a politician could not serve ethically plunged from 63 to 20 percent.white evangelicals went from being the least likely to the most likely group to agree that a candidate’s personal immorality has no bearing on his performance in public office.What happened in the interim? The answer is obvious: the advent of Donald Trump.There is more to this phenomenon than evangelical hypocrisy. Many Republican voters, including self-identified strong conservatives, are ready and willing to shift to the left if they’re told that that’s the direction Trump is moving.malleable to the point of innocence, and self-reported expressions of ideological fealty are quickly abandoned for policies that — once endorsed by a well-known party leader — run contrary to that expressed ideology.Those most willing to adjust their positions on ten issues ranging from abortion to guns to taxes are firm Republicans, Trump loyalists, self-identified conservatives and low information Republicans.The Barber-Pope study suggests that for many Republicans partisan identification is more a tribal affiliation than an ideological commitment.Many partisans are, in effect, more aligned with the leader of their party than with the principles of the party. (Although Barber and Pope confined their study to Republicans, they note that Democrats may “react in similar ways given the right set of circumstances.”)Voters often adopted the positions legislators took, even when legislators offered little justification. Moreover, voters did not evaluate their legislators more negatively when representatives took positions these voters had previously opposed, again regardless of whether legislators provided justifications. The findings are consistent with theories suggesting voters often defer to politicians’ policy judgments.In the conventional view, democracy begins with the voters. Ordinary people have preferences about what their government should do. They choose leaders who will do those things, or they enact their preferences directly in referendums. In either case, what the majority wants becomes government policy — a highly attractive prospect.Achen and Bartels dismiss this “folk theory of democracy” to argue that the more realistic view is thatCitizens’ perceptions of parties’ policy stands and their own policy views are significantly colored by their party preferences. Even on purely factual questions with clear right answers, citizens are sometimes willing to believe the opposite if it makes them feel better about their partisanship and vote choices.They conclude “that group and partisan loyalties, not policy preferences or ideologies, are fundamental in democratic politics.”The Barber-Pope study took advantage of Trump’s exceptional propensity during the campaign to take multiple, often contradictory stands on issues. This allowed them to cite two opposing stands Trump had taken on a series of issues in order to test the willingness of Republican voters to follow Trump’s position to the left or right.For example:1. “Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”2. “Donald Trump has said that he supports this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”3. “Donald Trump has said that he opposes this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”4. “Congressional Republicans have said that they support this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”5. “Congressional Republicans have said that they oppose this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”The same variation was used on nine other contentious policy questions: increasing taxes on the wealthy, abortion, immigration, guns on school property, the Iran nuclear deal, universal health care, background checks for gun purchases, climate change and funding Planned Parenthood. The survey also asked respondents how much they approved of Trump, how they would describe their own ideology on a 5-point scale, and eight questions to rank their political knowledge.Barber and Pope found that people who identified themselves as strong Republicans were among the most malleable voters. When told Trump had adopted a liberal stance, these voters moved decisively to the left; when told Trump had taken a conservative position, they moved sharply to the right, as the accompanying chart shows.The same patterns emerged in the case of voters who strongly approve of Trump and among voters who describe themselves as “strong conservatives,” as I mentioned earlier. This last point suggests that instead of calling themselves strong conservatives, these voters are more accurately described as strong partisans.This, in turn, helps explain why most elected Republican officials accepted Trump’s equivocal response to the white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Va. last month.Nathaniel Persily, a professor of law and political science at Stanford, described his surprise at the docility of Republican officials in an email:While I and others had written extensively about the partisan tribalism of both elites and the mass public, I guess I would have expected greater defections by Republicans in the wake of Charlottesville.Persily went on to argue a related point:To some extent, I think that each Republican realizes that the electoral and political costs of opposing the president may always exceed the benefits — no matter what the issue.I asked both Barber and Pope of Brigham Young what their thoughts on American politics are now that Trump has been in office eight months.Pope argued in an email that there has been too much emphasis on polarization and not enough on partisanship.While elites — elected officials and party activists — are ideologically polarized, the best the general public “can manage is a kind of tribal partisanship that does not really reflect the content of the elite discussion,” Pope wrote:Citizens pick a team, but they don’t naturally think like the team leadership does. And when Trump tells Republicans to think in a new way, lots of people happily adopt that new position because they were never that committed to the old ideas anyway. They’re just committed to the label.Republican leaders in the House and Senate, in Pope’s view, are struggling to come to terms with a hard truth: that much of the Republican electorateis not really interested in the conservative project as expressed by Paul Ryan or Mitch McConnell or the Freedom Caucus. They are hostile to immigrants and rather nationalist in outlook, but not consistently market-oriented or libertarian in their thinking the way that some Republican elites continue to be.In a separate email, Barber wrote that the commonplace phrase “all politics is identity politics” is a good description “of the state of the Republican Party, and the Democratic Party to a degree.”He noted that a large corporate tax cut “isn’t really an ideological priority for much of the rank and file” of the Republican Party, but “if it means that their side has ‘won’, then they are in favor of it. More broadly, I think it shows us that teamsmanship is much more important than any particular policy agenda.”What can we take away from all of this?Third, and most significant, if the Barber-Pope, Broockman-Daniels and Achen-Bartels conclusions are right, American politics is less a competition of ideas and more a struggle between two teams.In other words, insofar as elections have become primal struggles, and political competition has devolved into an atavistic spectacle, the prospect for a return to a politics of compromise and consensus approaches zero, no matter what temporary accommodations professional politicians make.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseIf the government goes to court to block the merger of AT&T and Time Warner, as seems increasingly likely, it may well be the antitrust case of the decade, even without the claims of presidential meddling that have already engulfed the deal in partisan controversy.A lawsuit by the Justice Department, along with its earlier, widely reported demands that AT&T sell either DirecTV or Turner Broadcasting to gain approval for the deal, would mark a radical departure from decades of antitrust enforcement policy, both in defining what is an unlawful anticompetitive merger and in fashioning a remedy to cure the problems.That’s because the combination of AT&T and Time Warner is what’s known as a “vertical” merger, meaning that the two companies don’t compete to any significant degree in their primary lines of business, which are telecommunications (AT&T) and entertainment (Time Warner). There would be the same number of competitors in both fields after the merger as there were before it.This week, two Barclays analysts, Kannan Venkateshwar and Amir Rozwadowski, called the government’s threat to block the deal “unprecedented” and said they were “perplexed” given the Justice Department’s longstanding leniency toward vertical mergers.Referring to Louis D. Brandeis, the former Supreme Court justice, he said, “There’s a populist, Brandeisian movement that’s rising.”President Trump tapped into that sentiment during the campaign when he described the proposed AT&T-Time Warner combination as “a deal we will not approve in my administration because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.”That’s a view shared by many progressive media critics, including an influential group of young antitrust professors who have been calling for stricter review of vertical mergers, especially in media and entertainment. Prominent Democrats also criticized the proposed deal.But since the election, Mr. Trump has continued to insert himself into what is supposed to be an independent review. On Wednesday, even as the Justice Department was said to be putting the finishing touches on its complaint, he renewed his attacks on CNN, the Time Warner-owned cable news network and his No. 1 media nemesis.The Justice Department hasn’t explicitly demanded that AT&T divest CNN, but it’s a key part of Turner Broadcasting. Should CNN be sold, it could easily fall into the hands of far more Trump-friendly owners than AT&T or Time Warner, such as conservative-leaning Sinclair Broadcasting, which has been on the acquisitions trail, or Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox. Fox bid for all of Time Warner’s assets in 2014 but said at the time that it would divest CNN to avoid antitrust concerns. (Fox might find Trump-appointed antitrust regulators to be friendlier this time.)Even when the government challenges vertical mergers, they are usually resolved by consent decree or other arrangements, in which the merged companies agree not to engage in anticompetitive behavior and to abide by conditions imposed by the government.That was the approach when Comcast acquired NBC Universal in 2011, a deal that raised many of these same issues. Comcast agreed to more than 150 conditions, many aimed at preventing Comcast from favoring NBC Universal content at the expense of competitors.While there continue to be critics of the Comcast-NBC merger, it’s hard to argue that competition in news and entertainment has diminished as a result, given the rise of Netflix and Amazon and the explosion in entertainment options that followed the merger.But there’s also a growing sense that such agreements are easily circumvented and that the government doesn’t have the resources to oversee hundreds of such limitations. The alternative is to demand divestitures, as the government has done during negotiations with AT&T. Such “structural” remedies, as they’re known, “are much easier than behavioral remedies to craft and enforce,” Professor Stucke said.“Our goal in remedying unlawful transactions should be to let the competitive process play out,” he said. “Unfortunately, behavioral remedies often fail to do that. Instead of protecting the competition that might be lost in an unlawful merger, a behavioral remedy supplants competition with regulation.”Divestitures have long been the preferred remedy for horizontal mergers, where there’s an overlap between the two companies. Airlines, for example, may have to sell routes or airport gates where the two airlines compete; cable operators may have to sell operations in cities where both companies operate.A study by the Federal Trade Commission found that concerns about every vertical merger examined by the commission from 2006 to 2012 were resolved through “conduct remedies” rather than divestitures, and that all these remedies had been successful at protecting competition.That hasn’t mollified a new generation of antitrust activists. Tim Wu, an antitrust professor at Columbia University and one of the leading proponents of a more intense scrutiny of media mergers, told me that the deal should be blocked on grounds that a combined megacompany could exert “broad anticompetitive effects.”Say, for example, that a combined AT&T-Time Warner aggressively raised prices for popular offerings like HBO and CNN. Rival distributors, such as cable companies, would have to pay much higher prices, passing the increases on to consumers, or drop the channels, forcing consumers who want them to turn to other distributors, such as AT&T, reinforcing its already commanding position in satellite, wireless and broadband distribution.This threat of higher prices and restricted consumer choice appears to be the theory the Justice Department is pursuing, according to people briefed on the negotiations.Further clouding any action is Mr. Trump’s outspoken animosity toward CNN. Antitrust enforcement decisions are supposed to be based solely on the facts and law, not on politics, and no one I spoke to could recall a president who so publicly inserted himself into an antitrust enforcement investigation. (While Richard Nixon notoriously meddled in antitrust enforcement in the 1970s, he kept his machinations secret, at least until they were exposed by Oval Office tape recordings.)Mr. Delrahim has pledged an independent review uninfluenced by politics. Professor Stucke noted that the investigation began during the Obama administration, and that “it’s unlikely senior leadership would go out on a limb to challenge the merger unless the staff had recommended it.”“They’re career professionals,” he said. “I’d start with the presumption the staff was diligent and followed the evidence.”An AT&T spokesman declined to comment, as did the Department of Justice.Asked this week whether there had been communications about the case with the White House, Attorney General Jeff Sessions declined to answer, fueling speculation that there may have been some.Should the case be filed and go to trial, that’s one mystery that will soon be resolved: Some of AT&T’s first subpoenas will no doubt go to the White House.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement• Cindy Crawford, Peter Dinklage, Morgan Freeman and Jeff Bezos were among the famous faces featured in ads during the game.As the Super Bowl headed into its final quarter, the ads continued to fluctuate between funny and somber. The N.F.L.’s own ad featuring the New York Giants’ Eli Manning and Odell Beckham Jr. re-enacting moves inspired by the movie “Dirty Dancing” was a hit, as was Amazon’s Alexa ad, which included Cardi B, Rebel Wilson and the company’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos.“There’s definitely a humanitarian theme that is running through the spots,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners, which created the Doritos-Mountain Dew ad. “That and humor seem to be the two themes of the night.”AdvertisementWhile there were no commercials connected to the #MeToo movement, some still saw progress when it came to the role of gender in Super Bowl ads.Advertisement“I was just thinking that one thing I haven’t seen are those ads that objectify women, which is refreshing,” Ms. Johnson said. “And guess what? There’s still funny stuff on the air. We’re making progress.”Still, some wished that there was more humor.“It’s really a pretty lame year,” said Marianne Malina, president of the agency GSD&M in Austin, Tex. “When the TV promos for the Olympics and ‘The Voice’ and the N.F.L. and Justin Timberlake overshadow a lot, that says everything.”Ms. Malina pointed out that that was a shift from the political tone of last year.“It’s an interesting insight into just the level of risk that people are comfortable with right now,” Ms. Malina said. “Last year, people had a very strong response, and now, a year later, people are confused. Everyone’s trying to get their head around all the things that are going on, so you can see how maybe the risk dial goes down.”“But in reality,” she added, “the risk dial maybe needs to go up.”Verizon was among the brands that took a somber route. Its ad showed images of rescue situations and carried the voices of people thanking emergency workers, ending with the words: “They answer the call. Our job is to make sure they can get it.”“In a culture and a climate where it’s hard to find any kind of positive news out there at the moment, it felt like something we wanted to really lean into and take on a very different message,” said Andrew McKechnie, Verizon’s chief creative officer.The blowback was swift for Ram after the carmaker used a sermon given by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for one of its ads.The general sentiment: Did it really just use Dr. King’s words about the value of service to sell trucks?AdvertisementI think we all agree that MLK’s message was, “Buy more cars”Now that Martin Luther King is endorsing a pickup truck from beoynd the grave i think we can all declare racism offically dead“It’s the wrong mistake to make given everything that’s going on in the U.S. right now,” said Tim Calkins, a marketing professor at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. “There’s so much emotion right now around race in this country that this was a high-risk move, and clearly it’s not going over very well.“I think it was well intentioned, but they’re going to have a lot of explaining to do,” Mr. Calkins added. “They did not release this ahead of time, so they went for the surprise. They got that, but at the same time, they now have a big problem with feedback and people being upset.”Ram approached Dr. King’s estate about using his voice in the commercial, said Eric D. Tidwell, the managing director of Intellectual Properties Management, the licenser of the estate.“Once the final creative was presented for approval, it was reviewed to ensure it met our standard integrity clearances,” Mr. Tidwell said in a statement on Sunday night. “We found that the overall message of the ad embodied Dr. King’s philosophy that true greatness is achieved by serving others.”Fiat Chrysler Automobiles U.S. said in a statement: “We worked closely with the representatives of the Martin Luther King Jr. estate to receive the necessary approvals, and estate representatives were a very important part of the creative process every step of the way.”The Super Bowl regularly draws elaborate schemes from advertisers, and this year is no exception. Tourism Australia — the Australian government agency responsible for attracting international visitors to the country — decided last April that it would buy a Super Bowl spot as part of a broader campaign geared toward drawing more visitors from North America.AdvertisementThe form it took: a big movie campaign for “Dundee,” a sequel to the movie “Crocodile Dundee,” starring the actors Danny McBride and Chris Hemsworth.“We did a scan around things like the Grammys and the Academy Awards and other sporting events like the N.B.A. Finals and the World Series, but the event that really stops this country is the Super Bowl,” said John O’Sullivan, the managing director of Tourism Australia. “It’s such a spectacle, right? If you look at it from a foreigner’s point of view, it’s this massive event which I think surpasses things like the Grand Slams in tennis and the Champions League final.”North America is the second-most-valuable market for Australian tourism after mainland China, and one that the agency has decided to focus on in the last six months, Mr. O’Sullivan said. While many people want to visit Australia, he said, the trick for the country is moving up from a “bucket list” destination to a place that people will go in the near future.The concept for the campaign was created by the ad agency Droga5, whose founder, David Droga, is Australian. Content tied to the pretend movie will morph after the Super Bowl ad and will continue to use Danny McBride and Chris Hemsworth, Mr. Droga said.“The beauty is there’s also a lot of content that moves with Chris and Danny that’s sort of them exploring the country as friends — as an Aussie showing around a mate,” he said.Mr. Droga also noted that the campaign for “Dundee” benefited from the support of “Aussiewood” stars like Mr. Jackman and Ms. Robbie, who worked on it for “nothing.”“If we had to pay commercial rights for those people,” then it “would be the most expensive ad in the Super Bowl maybe ever,” he said.Companies continue to use the Super Bowl platform to promote humanitarian causes either initiated or supported by their brands. It’s a type of marketing that promotes feelings over facts.One final Super Bowl connection: Mr. O’Sullivan noted that he spent a year of high school in Lebanon, Pa., making him a Philadelphia Eagles fan.Advertisement“Typically, you see the great work is front-loaded, and I guess my hope is that the better work is coming,” Wendy Clark, the chief executive of DDB North America and a former marketing executive at Coca-Cola, said at the start of the game’s second quarter. “At the end of the day, a Super Bowl ad is about epic, over-the-top production value,” and the first quarter “was a little quiet in the end.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, Ms. Clark was a fan of the Tide ad and the Doritos-Mountain Dew ad featuring Peter Dinklage and Morgan Freeman lip-syncing to Missy Elliott and Busta Rhymes.“The complete flip to Morgan Freeman, it’s just so good,” she said. “There’s a surprise aspect there, and it’s really enjoyable watching those two characters rap — the complete 180 is fantastic.”She added, “Functionally, you’re also thinking, ‘Oh, my God, I would eat those together.”Tide drew the laughs heading into the second quarter with a meta commercial starring David Harbour (“Stranger Things”) that showed a slew of setups for other ads before interrupting itself with, “No, it’s a Tide ad.”“I want to see how they bring it to life and on social,” Ms. Clark said. “I assume they’re going to comment on every single ad now from their handle.” (That’s @Tide on Twitter.)Stella Artois ran a commercial featuring Matt Damon urging people to buy limited-edition chalices in order to give years of clean water to people in developing countries through a partnership with Water.org, which works for safe water and sanitation. That was joined by a somber commercial from Budweiser, set to the song “Stand by Me,” focused on the company’s efforts to deliver cans of water to people affected by natural disasters.“Millennials like brands that link themselves to a social cause,” Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business, said. “What Stella Artois is doing with Water.org, I think, is really smart.”Pringles is running its first Super Bowl ad, starring the comedian Bill Hader, as it tries to popularize the notion of “stacking” chips with different flavors to arrive at a new, artificially flavored snack. (And, presumably, to encourage people to buy more than one pack of the chips at a time.)AdvertisementYuvraj Arora, a senior vice president of marketing at Kellogg, explained how to use the process to approximate the taste of chicken wings. “You take barbecue Pringles, buffalo ranch Pringles and ranch Pringles and you get a chicken-wing-like experience without the mess,” he said.Mr. Arora noted that the way the millennial generation interacts with food, especially on social media, was an inspiration for the idea.“Food is so central to millennials’ lifestyle,” he said. “All around, you see there’s mashups, new flavor experiences and a number of unique flavors.”In an era of cord-cutting and ad-skipping, the Super Bowl is a sweet salve for the nation’s marketers. There’s no bigger stage for advertisers — last year’s game drew more than 111 million viewers — and that’s why they’re willing to shell out millions of dollars to be on it for 30 seconds.Last year, commercials with social and political messages stole the show, but this year’s crop of advertisers seemed to steer clear of such commentary and aimed for laughs and nostalgia.Advertisement“I’m a little bit surprised,” Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business, said. “Some of the best ads over the last 10 years have focused on female empowerment, like the Audi daughter ad.”Women are generally much less visible in Super Bowl ads than men, even as Nielsen data shows that women were 47 percent of the audience for last year’s game. Mr. Taylor, who recently studied Super Bowl ads from 2008 to 2017, found that 76 percent of the commercials showed a man as a principal character, while 43 percent featured a woman as a principal character.Susan Credle, the global chief creative officer at the agency FCB, said Super Bowl advertisers may be “concerned about looking opportunistic versus supportive.” And humor, she noted, was particularly appealing given the social and political climate.“Sometimes when the world is troubled or America is feeling a little — well, I wouldn’t say it was an up 2017 for everybody — I think there is a tendency to want to balance out the energy,” Ms. Credle said. “Lightheartedness and a little fun and joy is probably a good antidote to the reality that we’re sitting in.”Fans of HBO’s “Game of Thrones” have been buzzing about a commercial for Doritos and Mountain Dew that stars the actors Peter Dinklage and Morgan Freeman, as well as the musicians Missy Elliott and Busta Rhymes. The brands, owned by Pepsi, cast Mr. Dinklage to represent fire, for a new spicy Doritos flavor, while Mr. Morgan plays ice for a new kind of Mountain Dew.Greg Lyons, the chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit, said the casting was not a reference to Mr. Dinklage’s “Game of Thrones” character, who advises a queen who owns dragons. The actor, he said, is “fiery on his own.”Mr. Lyons said, “He was in ‘Elf’ — he was pretty fiery in that as well.”While it has never been easier for advertisers to reach vast numbers of people around the world, thanks to the internet, the lure of the Super Bowl is the one huge audience it provides. Advertisers spent a combined $534 million on ads before, during and after the game last year, according to the research firm Kantar. The company said that the roughly $5 million a 30-second commercial cost last year compared to $2.5 million for 30 seconds in the National Football Conference championship game and $1.9 million for the same time in the Academy Awards.Advertisement“It’s a finite amount of inventory,” Gibbs Haljun, managing director of media investment at GroupM, the media buying arm of WPP. “There’s only one game, it’s only on once a year, the ratings are relatively stable and it is what it is.”Still, it appeared that NBC was selling at least some spots down to the wire, as illustrated by a last-minute buy from Wix.com that the company announced on Friday. In January, Wix.com was promoting its decision to sit out of this year’s game and arranging press interviews with its chief marketing officer about alternative plans for the money.NBC said in an email late Friday that it had sold all of its ads for the game.The network, which is owned by Comcast, has had the dual challenge this year of selling ads for both the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics, which will begin on Friday.“I can’t remember the last time that occurred,” Mr. Haljun said, “so this is kind of an odd challenge for them and continues to make the negotiations a little more interesting and robust.”Jason M. Bailey contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byIn 2009, Democrats controlled both the state senate and house in 27 states, the Republicans 14. After the 2016 elections, Republicans controlled both branches of the legislatures in 32 states to 14 for the Democrats.The importance of these trends cannot be overstated. State legislatures not only control redistricting in most states — a key to determining which party will control the House after the 2020 census — but also serve as a training ground where politicians learn the ropes of winning elections and governing. In this respect, state legislatures are a key source of new talent.Andrea Dew Steele, the organization’s president and founder, describes Emerge as “the beginning of the food chain,” performing basic training for women, many of them seeking office for the first time.Indivisible has played a leading role in turning out voters at congressional town halls to voice their opposition to Trump’s plan to repeal Obamacare — a tactic explicitly copied from the Tea Party’s organizing drive in 2009-2010.While support for these relatively new groups on the left is growing, the track record of some of the more established organizations is mixed.Money is not the only factor in politics — if it were, the efforts of these progressive groups would be doomed.Republicans and conservative organizations have had the financial advantage in the fight for state legislatures, and they will continue to have it during the 2018 election cycle.If we look at enthusiasm, however, Democrats have the clear advantage this year. Take special legislative elections.Malbin compared the data to prior years and his findings are noteworthy: So far this year, there are already 209 Democratic challengers, more than in any of the previous seven election cycles — and more than double the 78 Republican challengers in 2009, the year that led up to the Republican wave election of 2010.While motivation is high on the left, there is no guarantee that it will be well directed. Many of the newly involved enthusiasts are political neophytes.In a phone interview, Skocpol said the quality and effectiveness of Indivisible chapters “ran the gamut” in terms of efficacy, with only some developing structured organizations. There are groups, she said, that are equipped to mobilize members to act on specific issues and to get voters to the polls, while others are far less prepared to engage on either front.Along similar lines, a Democratic operative with extensive experience in grass-roots organizing — who asked not to be identified — told me thatWe are working with many of these new organizations in a variety of ways. As we have non-disclosure agreements with all of the organizations we work with, details have to come from them. The growth in activism that these groups have both spurred and harnessed outstrips anything I have seen in decades previously. That said, this activism is pushing against strong structural headwinds and entrenched power. Further, still unknown is whether the geographic distribution of this activism will be aligned with and find the political fulcrum points.By geographic distribution, this operative means that the renewed vitality on the left is most heavily concentrated in New York, Massachusetts and California, which are already Democratic.Resilience in the face of setbacks will be a key test of the long-range viability of activist liberal organizations across the country.Even if Democrats were to win every single 2018 House and Senate race for seats representing places that Hillary Clinton won or that Trump won by less than 3 percentage points — a pretty good midterm by historical standards — they could still fall short of the House majority and lose five Senate seats.The combination of Republican gerrymandering and the clustering of Democratic voters in urban centers “has moved the median House seat well to the right of the nation,” Wasserman notes.The result is what Wasserman calls a structural “partisan bias” favoring Republicans in Congressional elections:Trump lost the national popular vote by 2.1 percentage points, but Republicans won the median House seat by 3.4 points and the median Senate seat by 3.6 points.In the past, Republican commitments to building strength at the local level have been sustained by trade associations and corporations with a financial stake in decisions made at the county and state level. There is every reason to believe these interests will continue to invest time and money to protect their profits.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAddressing patrolmen and officers assembled in the Van Nostrand Theatre on Long Island on July 28, Trump was fully aware that his remarks would prove incendiary:When you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon — you just see them thrown in, rough — I said, please don’t be too nice. (Laughter.) Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, don’t hit their head and they’ve just killed somebody — don’t hit their head. I said, you can take the hand away, okay?Underlying Trump’s defiance of law enforcement norms is a calculated strategy advocating the use of force, with the twofold goal of pushing liberals back on their heels and affirming the instincts of his most avid supporters.Trump’s repeated attacks on liberal orthodoxy highlight how Democrats are themselves bound — hogtied is not too strong a word — by the conflicting needs and goals of the various constituencies in their multiracial, multiethnic coalition — a coalition that has been vulnerable to wedge issue attacks for 50 years.The survey asked whether seven statements apply more to Democrats or Republicans — “will take the right approach on health care,” “understands what it is like for regular Americans;” “will fight for people like you,” “will reduce the power of special interests in Congress,” “will cut taxes for the middle class,” “will do more to ensure that people are rewarded for hard work” and “will help improve the economy and create jobs.”Democrats held the advantage on one of the seven, health care, and that was by four points. Republicans were ahead on every other issue. Most important, Republicans led Democrats by a solid 19 points on ensuring that people are rewarded for hard work and by a devastating 35 points on improving the economy and creating jobs — just what “A Better Deal” claims to do.When Schumer, Pelosi and other Democrats seek to make the case for a “better deal,” they face an audience primed to disbelieve every word they say.I asked Pete Brodnitz, the founder of Expedition Strategies, one of the firms that conducted this survey, whether he thought there was a link between Trump’s emphasis on immigration, Latino gangs, and crime and the Democrats’ efforts to shift the agenda to economic policy.“This has been building for months but it has become pronounced recently,” he wrote in an email. The Trump administration hopes “Democrats will react by defending immigration and look ‘soft on gangs,’ ” aware that “if they push the envelope on this issue they can get coverage for their efforts and drown out Democratic efforts to change the topic.”Brodnitz described Trump’s tactics as offering “ideas that sound really outlandish but that they believe have popular support — at least with their core voters” and that the Long Island speech was based on “the hope that Democrats would look more concerned about criminals than about crime and its victims.”To put it mildly, it has been difficult for the Democrats to recruit key white voters to consider an economic agenda in the face of concerted efforts by the Trump campaign and his administration to shift the focus to crime.I asked a prominent political scientist — a man with generally moderate views — for his reaction to Trump’s comments in the Long Island speech. His answer surprised me. Requesting anonymity in order to speak candidly, he replied:I think, yeah, a lot of people, whites anyway, think that the police are too constrained. When I watch the anarchists tear up Oakland, which happens pretty regularly, a part of me thinks “where are the 1968 Chicago police when we really need them?” These thugs behave the way they do in part because there are no consequences. Also, we see a lot of cases on TV where someone is resisting arrest, the police wrestle him down and hit him a few times, and then there are complaints about excessive force. Heavens’ sakes, if someone doesn’t comply with an order, what are the police supposed to do?One question Haidt’s survey asks respondents is whether they agree or disagree with the idea that “a criminal should be made to suffer in the same way that his victim suffered.”Haidt said “progressives strongly reject it, and it correlates fairly well with politics — the farther right you are, the more you endorse it.”What, then, does Pinker make of Trump’s Long Island speech?It appeals to one of our worst angels, the desire for “rough justice” — quick and brutal revenge inflicted on a suspected wrongdoer. The ultimate evolutionary rationale for revenge, vendettas, blood feuds, mob violence, summary justice, lynching, vigilantes, deadly ethnic riots, the code of the streets, and other forms of rough justice is deterrence: if a person anticipates getting beaten up for exploiting people, he’ll think twice about exploiting them.Trump, in Pinker’s view, has focused on the most primitive and regressive emotions among voters:So yes, Trump is wisecracking about overturning millennia of progress in taming our brutish instincts for instant retaliation, and discarding the norms and institutions of justice that our better angels have crafted and perfected.Pinker sees this as part of an ongoing struggle.The appeal of regressive impulses is perennial. The forces of liberalism, modernity, cosmopolitanism, the open society, and Enlightenment values always have to push against our innate tribalism, authoritarianism, and thirst for vengeance.And yes,at times in history the darker forces prevail — the two world wars, the American crime wave from the 1960s to early 1990s, the rise of civil war in the developing world over that same period. These darker forces, moreover, are not just raw instincts, but often rationalized in ideologies.The connection may not seem obvious at first, but Pinker’s comments are directly relevant to the Democratic Party’s attempt to counter Trump with liberal economic policies.Not only is their adversary a man ungoverned by rule or tradition, but he is a man who has taken “our impulses of authoritarianism and tribalism,” to quote Pinker one last time, and constructed “an edifice of rationalization around them.”This puts the Democrats in a dangerous position. The more they succeed in pushing Trump up against a wall, politically speaking, the more they risk the possibility that the he will inflict real damage, whether it is hostile engagement abroad or increasingly aggressive attacks on democratic institutions at home.It is ominous that Trump has already hit upon the use of force as his preferred solution when confronting domestic law-and-order issues. One hates to think of what a man with his mind-set can do with a nuclear arsenal and the world as his stage.the strange specter of an American president’s seeming affection for strongmen and authoritarians created such a cognitive dissonance among my generation of conservatives — who had come of age under existential threat from the Soviet Union — that it was almost impossible to believe.Conservativeshave maintained an unnerving silence as instability has ensued. To carry on in the spring of 2017 as if what was happening was anything approaching normalcy required a determined suspension of critical faculties.What Flake recognizes, and what Democrats are only coming to realize, is that Trump represents a systemic assault on the legitimacy of America’s democratic processes, an attack that needs to be countered by far more that a modest collection of economic policies organized under the rubric “a better deal.”Flake’s open defection is an important step. If it is to become a serious problem for Trump, Flake’s Republican colleagues — Susan Collins, Bob Corker, Lindsey Graham, John McCain, Lisa Murkowksi, Rob Portman and Ben Sasse come to mind — will have to join him and not just one vote at a time. For a challenge to Trump to be effective, Republicans’ “unnerving silence” will have to crack.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWant to know how tough is it for many Americans to talk about their financial concerns?About as tough as any topic you can imagine. Kathleen Burns Kingsbury lays it on the line in her new book, “Breaking Money Silence (Praeger, $37).“Almost half of Americans say that the most difficult topic to discuss with others is personal finance and they would rather discuss death, politics or religion” she writes in the book’s opening lines. “Take a minute to let that information sink in,” she continues. “Many people would rather discuss dying than finances.”Ms. Kingsbury, a financial services industry consultant, explains the goal of her book in her subtitle: “How to Shatter Money Taboos, Talk More Openly About Finances and Live a Richer Life.”It’s a worthwhile objective, even if she stumbles occasionally. More on that later, but first the good news.AdvertisementMs. Kingsbury forces you to think about several things that are important to achieving financial health, starting with the phrase that comprises part of her title “money silence,” her term for someone’s refusal to talk and ask questions about personal finance.She scatters explanations throughout the book for why the sounds of (financial) silence might occur.They range from embarrassment — people may be reluctant to talk about money because they are ashamed that they haven’t saved enough, or that they don’t know much about personal finance and so they don’t want to ask “dumb” questions — to relationship discord. If one person is a spender and another is not, discussions can get heated when the credit card bill arrives, and so people avoid money discussions.There are more subtle reasons as well. Parents who are struggling financially may not want their adult children to know about their financial woes, for example, so they keep quiet and that may create ambivalence. If you aren’t sure how you really feel about money — Is it the root of all evil, as some people believe, or a potential force for good in your life and the lives of others? — you may not want to think about it.See how the largest, leading and lagging funds compare.Find funds by their type, performance, risk or expenses.All this is on top of what Ms. Kingsbury believes is the biggest reason for money silence: misplaced propriety. Some people feel it is simply wrong to talk about their personal finances, even if they need help — or can help someone else.You can understand any or all of those reactions, but none of them are helpful to your overall financial health.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementCurating the research on the nonfinancial part of personal finance is where she shines.And she is also good on basic advice.She says, for example, that “money compatibility is an important factor to consider in a romantic relationship,” going further by suggesting questions you could ask a potential partner early on. A representative query is: “How much financial autonomy do you want in the relationship?”Unfortunately, as Ms. Kingsbury is laying all this out, she has a tendency to get in her own way.References to personal experience are often helpful, but the constant examples in this book from the author’s own life are distracting. We read multiple times about her husband’s previous financial missteps. And in an attempt to emphasize the importance of her topic she tends to make unsupported, and hyperbolic, statements, such as claiming that a reluctance to talk about money is “bankrupting businesses and making it almost impossible for the next generation to be healthy around money.”She also tends to repeat herself. You can find a variation on her excellent opening quote about money just six pages later, and her seemingly constant mention of her previous books gets annoying.It is difficult to learn about a topic unless you are willing to ask questions. If Ms. Kingsbury’s book encourages people to engage and seek more information, it will have performed a valuable service.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseIn a period of otherwise extended market calm, geopolitics have been driving periodic bouts of volatility. Even small investors have been making bets on the impact politics can have on stocks and other asset classes. After last week’s sell-off, I got a wave of questions from people asking whether Mr. Trump might be impeached and if they should sell stocks.I obviously can’t answer the first question. As for selling stocks, my answer, as it has been consistently since the election, is “no,” at least not because of the troubles swirling around the president.Consider what has happened in the days since the headline-making news. By the middle of this week, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had recovered virtually everything it lost after the Trump-Russia news broke, and on Thursday it closed at a new high.Brazil’s Bovespa index regained much of the ground it lost last week and was in positive territory for the year to date.Within a month of Brexit, European stocks had recovered nearly all their losses. This year European stock markets have been notching new highs.Even some of Wall Street’s most famous and successful investors have been struggling this year to turn political upheaval into market gains. Paulson & Company and Soros Fund Management, two of the best-known global macro hedge funds, which make bets on geopolitical events, lost billions last year according to an annual hedge fund ranking compiled by LCH Investments. Paul Tudor Jones’s Tudor Investment, another macro fund, was flat, and Mr. Jones recently told investors he’s taking on more risk and shifting to more quantitative strategies in an effort to enhance performance.A macro hedge fund index compiled by Hedge Fund Research is down nearly 1 percent since Jan. 1 and over 4 percent for the last 12 months, one of the worst performing hedge fund indexes. Meanwhile, the S.&P. 500 gained almost 10 percent in 2016 and is up more than 7 percent this year.By and large, “investors should tune out political events,” said James B. Stack, president of InvesTech Research and Stack Financial Management, who has done a study of what he calls “crisis events” and their effect on markets. “Historically speaking, and as a seasoned investor, I’d say investors should just ignore geopolitical events like Brexit or whatever is happening in Brazil.”The problem, Mr. Stack’s research has found, is that “geopolitical events may be widely feared, and there will often be a knee-jerk market reaction when they’re unexpected, but seldom do they have a lasting impact. Underlying economic trends and monetary policy are far more important.”Markus Schomer, chief economist at the asset manager PineBridge Investments, made a similar point. As fundamental investors with longer time horizons, “we try not to be distracted by the political noise,” he said. “I’ve been telling even our traders with shorter time horizons that what we’re seeing doesn’t really affect the economy or monetary policy, which is more important for markets than anything else.”Mr. Stack noted that stocks declined sharply after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But the bear market and recession that followed the technology bubble that exploded in 2000 were already well underway by then. September 2001 turned out to be an unusually bad time to sell stocks: By New Year’s Day 2002, little more than three months after the post-9/11 low reached on Sept. 21, the S.&P. 500 had gained close to 20 percent.A more recent example was the showdown over the federal debt ceiling in 2011, when Standard & Poor’s downgraded United States government securities for the first time amid fears the government might default on its debt. “Stocks dropped 15 percent in less than two months and we were on the brink of a bear market,” Mr. Stack said. “Once the crisis was resolved, stocks came roaring back,” and had regained all their losses by year-end.Of 11 major geopolitical events examined by Mr. Stack’s firm, only two — the Nazi invasion of France in May 1940, and Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor in December 1941 — led to market losses over one-week, three-month and one-year periods (and in the case of Pearl Harbor, the one-year decline was less than 1 percent).President John F. Kennedy’s assassination had no discernible impact: Stocks were up more than 20 percent a year later.As geopolitical crises go, those were pretty big shocks to markets and investor psychology. So far, nothing in the Trump administration has come close. Still, expectations that Mr. Trump and a Republican Congress would succeed in enacting business- and shareholder-friendly tax and regulatory changes are part of what has driven recent market gains.Mr. Stack noted that measures of confidence among small businesses, chief executives and consumers are at or near record levels. “There’s no doubt that expectations have accelerated since the election,” he said. “So the question is whether political turmoil will turn those expectations upside down,” leading to a loss of confidence and lower consumer spending. That could happen, but so far, “we’re not seeing any evidence of that,” he said.He said comparisons to the Watergate-era bear market of 1973-74 were off base, because then the country was in recession, the Arab oil crisis sent gasoline prices surging, inflation was raging and interest rates hit record highs. Arguably, President Richard M. Nixon’s abandonment of the gold standard and the transition to market-determined currency exchange rates had more to do with plunging stock prices than his crumbling presidency.Mr. Schomer said a failure to act upon many of Mr. Trump’s spending and tax proposals might not be such a bad thing for markets, given that the United States economy is already at or close to full employment and doesn’t need additional stimulus. “At the end of the day, the only reason we’ll have a recession is if the Fed is forced to raise interest rates too quickly, unless we have a massive crisis, which I don’t see happening,” he said.If anything, history suggests that long-term investors should buy stocks after markets fall on bad geopolitical news, not sell. But that’s not to say this time won’t prove to be an exception, or that markets won’t correct for other reasons.Whatever happens with President Trump, the United States is in the ninth year of the second-longest bull market since World War II; none have made it past 10 years. Valuations are getting stretched. Sooner or later, there will be another correction, and eventually a bear market.Nonetheless, Mr. Schomer says he sees no imminent end to the bull market. “We’re not going to see a 25 percent surge this year, but this economic cycle is so slow and steady with so few imbalances, we could end up with 8 to 10 percent gains the next few years and a much greater degree of overvaluation.”For his part, Mr. Stack said: “We still believe this market will hit new highs in 2017, but the low volatility and the high valuations suggest this is not a low-risk market. It’s not a market in which you should be investing large sums of new capital.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byTake a recent survey showing a fundamental shift in the attitude of Republicans toward the value of higher education.From 2010 to 2015, solid majorities of Republicans and Democrats agreed that institutions of higher learning had a positive effect on America. In 2010, Republicans were 58-32 positive and Democrats 65-22. For Democrats, this pattern grew stronger over time, reaching 72-19 in the most recent polling in June.At a time when countries around the world are doing all they can to attract and retain talented individuals to come to their shores to build and grow innovative companies, the Trump Administration is signaling its intent to do the exact opposite.Imagine if we had sent half of Silicon Valley’s immigrant entrepreneurs away. The 44 immigrant-founded billion-dollar start-ups now in the U.S. have created an average of 760 American jobs per company. Without these immigrant entrepreneurs, it is unlikely America would stand as the beacon of innovation that it is today.Countless analyses have demonstrated that Trump won the election by combining support from traditional Republican voters with a surge in backing from constituencies that contemporary economic and cultural developments have left behind.In recent decades, this class has become increasingly influential in setting cultural standards and in shaping contemporary values. Its success has provoked deepening resentment, to say the least.Far from spending their college years in a meritocratic melting pot, the New Elite spend school with people who are mostly just like them — which might not be so bad, except that so many of them have been ensconced in affluent suburbs from birth and have never been outside the bubble of privilege.hardworking, highly educated, jet-setting meritocrats who feel they are the deserving winners of a tough, worldwide economic competition — and many of them, as a result, have an ambivalent attitude toward those of us who didn’t succeed so spectacularly. Perhaps most noteworthy, they are becoming a trans-global community of peers who have more in common with one another than with their countrymen back home.Picture a coffee shop in a big city almost anywhere on earth. It is filled with stylish, firm-bodied people aged under 50 drinking $5 coffees. Fresh from yoga class, they are reading New Yorker magazine articles about inequality before returning to their tiny $1.5 million apartments. This is the cultural elite.Trump, Kuper explains, labels this constituency“the elite” but not all class members are rich. Adjunct professors, NGO workers and unemployed screenwriters belong alongside Mark Zuckerberg. Rather, what defines the cultural elite is education. Most of its members went to brand-name universities, and consider themselves deserving rather than entitled. They believe in facts and experts. Most grew up comfortably off in the post-1970s boom. Their education is their insurance policy and, so almost whatever their income, they suffer less economic anxiety than older or lesser educated people. Their political utopia is high-tax, egalitarian, feminist and green.The reaction against this class, which found expression in the 2016 election, has proved deeply troubling in some quarters.Richard Florida, in an email to me, was harsh in his assessment of consequences of the current anti-elite reaction:The United States is the first advanced nation since Japan and Germany during World War II to turn its back on progress and liberalism.In doing so, the United States threatens its status as “the most innovative, most knowledge driven, most powerful nation on earth,” according to Florida:The political backlash from this divide can kill us. It is the only thing that can hold back our cities and stop talented and ambitious people from coming here.Such people have portable “achieved” identities, based on educational and career success which makes them generally comfortable and confident with new places and people.The anywhere voter values “autonomy, mobility and novelty” while giving much lower priority to group identity, tradition and patriotic expression. They view globalization, immigration, self-realization and meritocracy as positive concepts.Somewhere voters, in Goodhart’s description, aremore rooted and have “ascribed” identities — Scottish farmer, working class Geordie, Cornish housewife — based on group belonging and particular places, which is why they find rapid change more unsettling. One core group of Somewheres have been the so-called ‘left behind’ – mainly older white working class men with little education.Most are neither bigots nor xenophobes, according to Goodhart, and they generally accept the liberalization of “attitudes to race, gender and sexuality,” but this acceptance hasbeen more selective and tentative, and has not extended to enthusiasm for mass immigration or European integration.Among voters for Clinton, 27 percent lived in their hometown and 43 percent lived 2 hours or more away from their hometown; among Trump supporters, 36 percent lived in their hometown and 37 percent lived 2 or more hours away.James Stimson, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, sent me his own critical assessment of this phenomenon:Give a randomly selected group the choice, stay or go, and those who choose to go will be profoundly different from those who stay. And thus when we observe the behavior of those who live in distressed areas, we are not observing the effect of economic decline on the working class, we are observing a highly selected group of people who faced economic adversity and choose to stay at home and accept it when others sought and found opportunity elsewhere.Those who choose to leave such communities and find their fortune elsewhere are, in Stimson’s view,ambitious and confident in their abilities. Those who are fearful, conservative, in the social sense, and lack ambition stay and accept decline.Given that, Stimson says:I don’t see them as once proud workers, now dispossessed, but rather as people of limited ambition who might have sought better opportunity elsewhere and did not. I see their social problems more as explanations of why they didn’t seek out opportunity when they might have than as the result of lost employment.Stimson then poses another question: “Should the Democratic Party cater to these voters?” His answer is an unequivocal no:The [rural] working class was once mainstream America, the most common and typical of all of us. It is now the residue of failed social mobility, when most have been mobile. After decades of social mobility, that residue is now more distinctive, it is those who are not willing to grab the ring, but rather to remain in the hometown and fear change and others. These people should be Trump voters.While Stimson’s analysis is harsh — criticizing as it does many hardworking men and women whose loyalties to family, friend, community and church may supersede personal ambition — he captures a crucial element of contemporary politics. This is the potential of an angry electorate to provide a key base of support to a politician like Trump who capitalizes on resentment, intensifies racial and ethnic hostility and lies with abandon as a means to his ends.While Trump pulled out an Electoral College victory by mobilizing resentful voters and turning out more traditional Republicans, there are significant questions about the continuing viability of his coalition.“I think that ‘somewhere people’ are a fast shrinking sliver of the American population.” As the economy changes, Frey argued,younger people, millennials and upcoming generations are increasingly moving to where the jobs are, and are more comfortable with diversity and global connectivity.If Democrats have one thing to be grateful for, it’s Trump’s failure to live up to his campaign promises on health care and taxes, at least so far.In practice, Trump is going in the opposite direction, pressing for a radical alteration of health care policy that directly conflicts with the interests of millions of his supporters, and for legislation catering to the demands of the wealthiest Republicans for reduced tax burdens.We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, the forgotten people, the forgotten men and women of this country, who built our country.American politics has become fluid and volatile. Income differences have been supplanted by cultural and social practices closely linked to levels of educational attainment. Political partisanship is now firmly linked to race, with whiteness defining one of the two major political parties. Religiosity has taken on new meaning — if one can call it that — with devout churchgoers supporting an avowed libertine. In that sense, both sides agree that morality has become a matter of personal discretion. Partisans impute evil to their adversaries, and the meritocratic elect have barred the gates.Trump has intuitively exploited this chaos. He is not at the end of his string, not by a long shot. His life demonstrates his will to win. His vulnerabilities and his pathologies are also astoundingly clear. While his critics are convinced that Trump the chameleon is masquerading as the protector of the left behind, he has in fact tapped into vast anger over immigration, which has shot up over the past 50 years — and there is no good reason to believe that this anger will dissipate by 2020.The question that remains is whether President Trump can continue to exploit the fissures he opened as candidate Trump. The answers history provides are not altogether reassuring.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementLawmakers from both chambers are now headed to conference, where they will try to work out their differences and emerge with a final bill that can be passed by the House and Senate and then sent to President Trump’s desk by Christmas.Getting a bill signed into law by Mr. Trump remains a top priority of Republican lawmakers, and momentum to get something to his desk quickly remains.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said that lawmakers were working on the bill “so that it comes out very beautifully.”Advertisement“I call it ‘the mixer,’ he said. “It’s a conference where everyone gets together and they pick all the good things and get rid of the things they don’t like.”AdvertisementAnd, below, we outline some of the top issues that must be resolved before the legislation can be signed into law.Senate lawmakers, in their bill, seeking additional revenue, brought back the corporate alternative minimum tax and reinstated a limited version of the alternative minimum tax for individuals. The House bill eliminated both versions of the alternative minimum tax.Together, the Senate changes are expected to raise about $173 billion over the next decade. But the possible reinstatement of the corporate alternative minimum tax is eliciting significant blowback from businesses, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing companies, technology companies and pharmaceutical companies, which say it would undermine their ability to use valuable tax credits.The reason: Both bills cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. But the corporate alternative minimum tax is also set at 20 percent. It is devised to ensure that companies cannot use loopholes to avoid paying taxes and requires that companies calculate their taxes under both the corporate rate and the alternative minimum rate and pay the greater amount.By lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent but keeping the alternative minimum tax, Congress is essentially setting a 20 percent floor. Companies that try to use tax breaks to lower their effective tax rate, like the research and development tax credit, would still face the 20 percent alternative minimum tax, nullifying the value of incentives that are supposed to promote research.Lawmakers are scrambling to resolve the issue. While they could simply do away with the corporate alternative minimum tax, the Senate would then have to find additional revenue to ensure the legislation stays within the $1.5 trillion bucket that Congress has created for the tax cuts.AdvertisementOne possible solution floating around is to increase the corporate tax rate to 22 percent, rather than 20 percent, which would raise more revenue. But that plan may not sit well with House Republicans, many of whom have been unwavering in their push to lower the rate to 20 percent.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The House bill guts a number of itemized deductions while the Senate bill expands them.Mortgage interest deduction• House caps at $500,000; Senate retainsMedical expense deduction• House repeals; Senate expandsTeacher deduction for school supplies; graduate student tuition waver; student loan interest deduction• House repeals all; Senate expands or retains allThe Senate bill allows owners of businesses organized as pass-throughs to deduct 23 percent of their business income.The House bill sets a new 25 percent tax on pass-through businesses and builds guardrails to prevent companies from exploiting the loophole.The Senate bill creates seven income tax brackets: 10 percent, 12 percent, 22 percent, 24 percent, 32 percent, 35 percent and 38.5 percent. Those brackets expire at the end of 2025.The House bill creates four income tax brackets: 12 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent and 39.6 percent. Those brackets are permanent.The House bill ultimately kills the estate tax, which Republicans refer to as the death tax, because it is a tax on wealthy estates that are left to heirs.The Senate bill applies the death tax to fewer people by doubling the exemption to levels to $11 million for individuals and $22 million for couples, but it does not kill the tax.AdvertisementThe Senate bill leaves the Johnson Amendment untouched.Repealing the amendment has long been a key priority of the religious right, which views the ban as an example of government hostility to religion in the public square. But such a repeal is opposed by thousands of religious and nonprofit leaders, who warn that it could blur the line between charity and politics.Mr. Trump has pledged to repeal the 1954 ban, and religious groups have said they expect it to be included in the final legislation.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAt the same time, that’s not a complete picture.A 2013 study of red and blue America, conducted well before the seismic events of the last two years, sheds additional light on the Republican electorate and provides a more complicated understanding of contemporary conservatism.The most conservative and most Republican of the three psychological regions — which Rentfrow labels “Cluster 1: Friendly and Conventional” — extends across the northern tier of the United States from Montana to Michigan, down through the Midwest to almost all of the South for a total of 26 states. The accompanying map shows the region in shades of purple.Rentfrow found that the Cluster 1 region isless affluent, has fewer highly educated residents, and is less innovative compared with states in the other regions. States in this region also appeared to have higher levels of social capital and less social tolerance compared with states in other regions. Moreover, friendly and conventional states were more politically conservative and Protestant compared with other regions.Rentfrow and his co-authors write that the regionis defined by moderately high levels of extroversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, moderately low neuroticism, and very low opennessand thatthis configuration of traits portrays the sort of person who is sociable, considerate, dutiful, and traditional.I asked a number of experts in political psychology what they thought about the Rentfrow paper, and their answers ran the gamut from those who support a more empathetic portrayal of Republican voters to those who are adamant in their view that authoritarianism remains a dominant characteristic of those on the right.I started with Rentfrow himself. My question went as follows:Some research shows that Republicans, and Trump voters in particular, score high on measures of authoritarianism and on critical, if not hostile, views of African-Americans and immigrants. How does this fit with your finding that residents of the most Republican region are friendly, sociable and considerate?Rentfrow replied thatindividuals high in authoritarianism score low in openness. So in this sense, the patterns of results we find at the regional level are consistent.Many whites in the South, he argued, abide by an “honor culture.” As longas everyone is respectful and abides by the social norms, everyone is happy and agreeable. But when threats are made against one’s reputation or values, acts of violence and physical aggression are considered appropriate forms of retribution. In some ways, the profile we observe touches on the surface of this profile — the friendly and considerate aspect when all is well. But I think we’re now beginning to see more of the aggressive aspects. I think many people, perhaps especially in this region, have begun to feel threatened by the changes taking place in society and are reacting with anger.Stenner explained this seeming contradiction by noting thatit is a lot easier to be generous and considerate and civic-minded and invested in one’s community if one’s community is full of people much like oneself. The kinds of behaviors we get out of authoritarians depend critically on how and where they have drawn the boundaries of “us” and “them.” They can be very attentive to “us,” but also tend to be very particular about whom “us” includes.John Jost, a professor of psychology and politics at N.Y.U., expands upon the implications of the word “conscientiousness” in describing red state voters:Conscientiousness is correlated with measures of racism, sexism, homophobia, prejudice, authoritarianism, social dominance, and system justification. I suspect that this personality factor has more to do with a need for order or desire for rule-following, which can easily take an authoritarian turn, than other aspects of conscientiousness that we might associate with, say, honesty or integrity.In the opposite corner from Jost, Marc Hetherington, a political scientist at Vanderbilt and a co-author of the 2009 book “Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics,” said he has abandoned use of the word “authoritarian” because he views it as excessively pejorative. In place of authoritarian, Hetherington said he will now use the phrase “fixed worldview.”“The adherence to established traditions, what scholars derisively call conventionalism, is very much a characteristic of high conscientiousness,” Hetherington wrote:Whether you think this is good or bad probably depends on what you think of community norms. In my view, there is a lot of good to many of them. Fixed worldview people want to protect them.Hetherington added a cautionary note:Here is the problem though. If you are perceived as outside that community, the enforcement of those norms isn’t going to feel very good.Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U.’s Stern School of Business, raised a crucial if obvious point: Primary season Trump voters do not represent all Republican voters.We can’t really know, just on the basis of this paper, whether these traits apply to Trump voters. All we can know is that these traits are more common in states and regions that voted for Trump. It is possible that the people who most show the positively valenced personality traits did not have Trump as their first choice in the primary, but then, once the general election came around, most of them voted for the Republican candidate, which is what partisans do in our two party system with very little party switching.Matt Motyl, a political psychologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, argued in an email that in the general election, thetypical Trump voter is not a raging, screaming white nationalist; the typical Trump voter is not much different from the typical Romney, McCain, or Bush voter. They are just ordinary Republicans.There is, however, a subset of Trump supporters “who are extraordinarily vocal in their intolerance and white nationalism,” according to Motyl. These activists have become “the template of the stereotype of Trump voters,” he wrote. “As is the case for many stereotypes,” he added, “there is a grain of truth, but the grain of truth is just that — a grain.”In fact, authoritarian voters with a sense of besieged white identity are more than a “grain” in the Republican electorate.And the clout of the authoritarian, white identity wing of the Republican Party is such that Trump is governing to please this wing first and foremost.From his apocalyptic threats to Kim Jong-un to his call for the firing of protesting N.F.L. players, from his pardon of Joe Arpaio to his defense of pro-Nazi protesters in Charlottesville, Trump has remained the leader of hard-right, white America.This strategy won him the presidency in 2016 when millions of non-authoritarian white Republicans — sympathetic, kind, affectionate, conscientiousness, persevering, thorough and reliable — made a pact with the devil and chose party loyalty over conscience. Who’s to say it won’t work again?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byIn the Trump era, Republicans have been revising their views on right and wrong.In 2011, the Public Religion Research Institute asked voters ifan elected official who commits an immoral act in their personal life can still behave ethically and fulfill their duties in their public and professional life.Every other religious group was less judgmental. Catholics, 49 no, 42, yes; white mainline Protestants: 44 percent no, 38 percent yes; the religiously unaffiliated, 26 no, 63 yes.Are the moral convictions of white evangelical Protestants writ in stone? Apparently not.Five years later, in October, 2016, P.R.R.I. asked the same question. The percentage of white evangelical Protestants who said that a politician who commits an immoral act in their personal life could still behave ethically shot up from 30 to 72 percent. The percentage saying such a politician could not serve ethically plunged from 63 to 20 percent.white evangelicals went from being the least likely to the most likely group to agree that a candidate’s personal immorality has no bearing on his performance in public office.What happened in the interim? The answer is obvious: the advent of Donald Trump.There is more to this phenomenon than evangelical hypocrisy. Many Republican voters, including self-identified strong conservatives, are ready and willing to shift to the left if they’re told that that’s the direction Trump is moving.malleable to the point of innocence, and self-reported expressions of ideological fealty are quickly abandoned for policies that — once endorsed by a well-known party leader — run contrary to that expressed ideology.Those most willing to adjust their positions on ten issues ranging from abortion to guns to taxes are firm Republicans, Trump loyalists, self-identified conservatives and low information Republicans.The Barber-Pope study suggests that for many Republicans partisan identification is more a tribal affiliation than an ideological commitment.Many partisans are, in effect, more aligned with the leader of their party than with the principles of the party. (Although Barber and Pope confined their study to Republicans, they note that Democrats may “react in similar ways given the right set of circumstances.”)Voters often adopted the positions legislators took, even when legislators offered little justification. Moreover, voters did not evaluate their legislators more negatively when representatives took positions these voters had previously opposed, again regardless of whether legislators provided justifications. The findings are consistent with theories suggesting voters often defer to politicians’ policy judgments.In the conventional view, democracy begins with the voters. Ordinary people have preferences about what their government should do. They choose leaders who will do those things, or they enact their preferences directly in referendums. In either case, what the majority wants becomes government policy — a highly attractive prospect.Achen and Bartels dismiss this “folk theory of democracy” to argue that the more realistic view is thatCitizens’ perceptions of parties’ policy stands and their own policy views are significantly colored by their party preferences. Even on purely factual questions with clear right answers, citizens are sometimes willing to believe the opposite if it makes them feel better about their partisanship and vote choices.They conclude “that group and partisan loyalties, not policy preferences or ideologies, are fundamental in democratic politics.”The Barber-Pope study took advantage of Trump’s exceptional propensity during the campaign to take multiple, often contradictory stands on issues. This allowed them to cite two opposing stands Trump had taken on a series of issues in order to test the willingness of Republican voters to follow Trump’s position to the left or right.For example:1. “Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”2. “Donald Trump has said that he supports this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”3. “Donald Trump has said that he opposes this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”4. “Congressional Republicans have said that they support this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”5. “Congressional Republicans have said that they oppose this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour?”The same variation was used on nine other contentious policy questions: increasing taxes on the wealthy, abortion, immigration, guns on school property, the Iran nuclear deal, universal health care, background checks for gun purchases, climate change and funding Planned Parenthood. The survey also asked respondents how much they approved of Trump, how they would describe their own ideology on a 5-point scale, and eight questions to rank their political knowledge.Barber and Pope found that people who identified themselves as strong Republicans were among the most malleable voters. When told Trump had adopted a liberal stance, these voters moved decisively to the left; when told Trump had taken a conservative position, they moved sharply to the right, as the accompanying chart shows.The same patterns emerged in the case of voters who strongly approve of Trump and among voters who describe themselves as “strong conservatives,” as I mentioned earlier. This last point suggests that instead of calling themselves strong conservatives, these voters are more accurately described as strong partisans.This, in turn, helps explain why most elected Republican officials accepted Trump’s equivocal response to the white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Va. last month.Nathaniel Persily, a professor of law and political science at Stanford, described his surprise at the docility of Republican officials in an email:While I and others had written extensively about the partisan tribalism of both elites and the mass public, I guess I would have expected greater defections by Republicans in the wake of Charlottesville.Persily went on to argue a related point:To some extent, I think that each Republican realizes that the electoral and political costs of opposing the president may always exceed the benefits — no matter what the issue.I asked both Barber and Pope of Brigham Young what their thoughts on American politics are now that Trump has been in office eight months.Pope argued in an email that there has been too much emphasis on polarization and not enough on partisanship.While elites — elected officials and party activists — are ideologically polarized, the best the general public “can manage is a kind of tribal partisanship that does not really reflect the content of the elite discussion,” Pope wrote:Citizens pick a team, but they don’t naturally think like the team leadership does. And when Trump tells Republicans to think in a new way, lots of people happily adopt that new position because they were never that committed to the old ideas anyway. They’re just committed to the label.Republican leaders in the House and Senate, in Pope’s view, are struggling to come to terms with a hard truth: that much of the Republican electorateis not really interested in the conservative project as expressed by Paul Ryan or Mitch McConnell or the Freedom Caucus. They are hostile to immigrants and rather nationalist in outlook, but not consistently market-oriented or libertarian in their thinking the way that some Republican elites continue to be.In a separate email, Barber wrote that the commonplace phrase “all politics is identity politics” is a good description “of the state of the Republican Party, and the Democratic Party to a degree.”He noted that a large corporate tax cut “isn’t really an ideological priority for much of the rank and file” of the Republican Party, but “if it means that their side has ‘won’, then they are in favor of it. More broadly, I think it shows us that teamsmanship is much more important than any particular policy agenda.”What can we take away from all of this?Third, and most significant, if the Barber-Pope, Broockman-Daniels and Achen-Bartels conclusions are right, American politics is less a competition of ideas and more a struggle between two teams.In other words, insofar as elections have become primal struggles, and political competition has devolved into an atavistic spectacle, the prospect for a return to a politics of compromise and consensus approaches zero, no matter what temporary accommodations professional politicians make.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseIf the government goes to court to block the merger of AT&T and Time Warner, as seems increasingly likely, it may well be the antitrust case of the decade, even without the claims of presidential meddling that have already engulfed the deal in partisan controversy.A lawsuit by the Justice Department, along with its earlier, widely reported demands that AT&T sell either DirecTV or Turner Broadcasting to gain approval for the deal, would mark a radical departure from decades of antitrust enforcement policy, both in defining what is an unlawful anticompetitive merger and in fashioning a remedy to cure the problems.That’s because the combination of AT&T and Time Warner is what’s known as a “vertical” merger, meaning that the two companies don’t compete to any significant degree in their primary lines of business, which are telecommunications (AT&T) and entertainment (Time Warner). There would be the same number of competitors in both fields after the merger as there were before it.This week, two Barclays analysts, Kannan Venkateshwar and Amir Rozwadowski, called the government’s threat to block the deal “unprecedented” and said they were “perplexed” given the Justice Department’s longstanding leniency toward vertical mergers.Referring to Louis D. Brandeis, the former Supreme Court justice, he said, “There’s a populist, Brandeisian movement that’s rising.”President Trump tapped into that sentiment during the campaign when he described the proposed AT&T-Time Warner combination as “a deal we will not approve in my administration because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.”That’s a view shared by many progressive media critics, including an influential group of young antitrust professors who have been calling for stricter review of vertical mergers, especially in media and entertainment. Prominent Democrats also criticized the proposed deal.But since the election, Mr. Trump has continued to insert himself into what is supposed to be an independent review. On Wednesday, even as the Justice Department was said to be putting the finishing touches on its complaint, he renewed his attacks on CNN, the Time Warner-owned cable news network and his No. 1 media nemesis.The Justice Department hasn’t explicitly demanded that AT&T divest CNN, but it’s a key part of Turner Broadcasting. Should CNN be sold, it could easily fall into the hands of far more Trump-friendly owners than AT&T or Time Warner, such as conservative-leaning Sinclair Broadcasting, which has been on the acquisitions trail, or Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox. Fox bid for all of Time Warner’s assets in 2014 but said at the time that it would divest CNN to avoid antitrust concerns. (Fox might find Trump-appointed antitrust regulators to be friendlier this time.)Even when the government challenges vertical mergers, they are usually resolved by consent decree or other arrangements, in which the merged companies agree not to engage in anticompetitive behavior and to abide by conditions imposed by the government.That was the approach when Comcast acquired NBC Universal in 2011, a deal that raised many of these same issues. Comcast agreed to more than 150 conditions, many aimed at preventing Comcast from favoring NBC Universal content at the expense of competitors.While there continue to be critics of the Comcast-NBC merger, it’s hard to argue that competition in news and entertainment has diminished as a result, given the rise of Netflix and Amazon and the explosion in entertainment options that followed the merger.But there’s also a growing sense that such agreements are easily circumvented and that the government doesn’t have the resources to oversee hundreds of such limitations. The alternative is to demand divestitures, as the government has done during negotiations with AT&T. Such “structural” remedies, as they’re known, “are much easier than behavioral remedies to craft and enforce,” Professor Stucke said.“Our goal in remedying unlawful transactions should be to let the competitive process play out,” he said. “Unfortunately, behavioral remedies often fail to do that. Instead of protecting the competition that might be lost in an unlawful merger, a behavioral remedy supplants competition with regulation.”Divestitures have long been the preferred remedy for horizontal mergers, where there’s an overlap between the two companies. Airlines, for example, may have to sell routes or airport gates where the two airlines compete; cable operators may have to sell operations in cities where both companies operate.A study by the Federal Trade Commission found that concerns about every vertical merger examined by the commission from 2006 to 2012 were resolved through “conduct remedies” rather than divestitures, and that all these remedies had been successful at protecting competition.That hasn’t mollified a new generation of antitrust activists. Tim Wu, an antitrust professor at Columbia University and one of the leading proponents of a more intense scrutiny of media mergers, told me that the deal should be blocked on grounds that a combined megacompany could exert “broad anticompetitive effects.”Say, for example, that a combined AT&T-Time Warner aggressively raised prices for popular offerings like HBO and CNN. Rival distributors, such as cable companies, would have to pay much higher prices, passing the increases on to consumers, or drop the channels, forcing consumers who want them to turn to other distributors, such as AT&T, reinforcing its already commanding position in satellite, wireless and broadband distribution.This threat of higher prices and restricted consumer choice appears to be the theory the Justice Department is pursuing, according to people briefed on the negotiations.Further clouding any action is Mr. Trump’s outspoken animosity toward CNN. Antitrust enforcement decisions are supposed to be based solely on the facts and law, not on politics, and no one I spoke to could recall a president who so publicly inserted himself into an antitrust enforcement investigation. (While Richard Nixon notoriously meddled in antitrust enforcement in the 1970s, he kept his machinations secret, at least until they were exposed by Oval Office tape recordings.)Mr. Delrahim has pledged an independent review uninfluenced by politics. Professor Stucke noted that the investigation began during the Obama administration, and that “it’s unlikely senior leadership would go out on a limb to challenge the merger unless the staff had recommended it.”“They’re career professionals,” he said. “I’d start with the presumption the staff was diligent and followed the evidence.”An AT&T spokesman declined to comment, as did the Department of Justice.Asked this week whether there had been communications about the case with the White House, Attorney General Jeff Sessions declined to answer, fueling speculation that there may have been some.Should the case be filed and go to trial, that’s one mystery that will soon be resolved: Some of AT&T’s first subpoenas will no doubt go to the White House.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement• Cindy Crawford, Peter Dinklage, Morgan Freeman and Jeff Bezos were among the famous faces featured in ads during the game.As the Super Bowl headed into its final quarter, the ads continued to fluctuate between funny and somber. The N.F.L.’s own ad featuring the New York Giants’ Eli Manning and Odell Beckham Jr. re-enacting moves inspired by the movie “Dirty Dancing” was a hit, as was Amazon’s Alexa ad, which included Cardi B, Rebel Wilson and the company’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos.“There’s definitely a humanitarian theme that is running through the spots,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners, which created the Doritos-Mountain Dew ad. “That and humor seem to be the two themes of the night.”AdvertisementWhile there were no commercials connected to the #MeToo movement, some still saw progress when it came to the role of gender in Super Bowl ads.Advertisement“I was just thinking that one thing I haven’t seen are those ads that objectify women, which is refreshing,” Ms. Johnson said. “And guess what? There’s still funny stuff on the air. We’re making progress.”Still, some wished that there was more humor.“It’s really a pretty lame year,” said Marianne Malina, president of the agency GSD&M in Austin, Tex. “When the TV promos for the Olympics and ‘The Voice’ and the N.F.L. and Justin Timberlake overshadow a lot, that says everything.”Ms. Malina pointed out that that was a shift from the political tone of last year.“It’s an interesting insight into just the level of risk that people are comfortable with right now,” Ms. Malina said. “Last year, people had a very strong response, and now, a year later, people are confused. Everyone’s trying to get their head around all the things that are going on, so you can see how maybe the risk dial goes down.”“But in reality,” she added, “the risk dial maybe needs to go up.”Verizon was among the brands that took a somber route. Its ad showed images of rescue situations and carried the voices of people thanking emergency workers, ending with the words: “They answer the call. Our job is to make sure they can get it.”“In a culture and a climate where it’s hard to find any kind of positive news out there at the moment, it felt like something we wanted to really lean into and take on a very different message,” said Andrew McKechnie, Verizon’s chief creative officer.The blowback was swift for Ram after the carmaker used a sermon given by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for one of its ads.The general sentiment: Did it really just use Dr. King’s words about the value of service to sell trucks?AdvertisementI think we all agree that MLK’s message was, “Buy more cars”Now that Martin Luther King is endorsing a pickup truck from beoynd the grave i think we can all declare racism offically dead“It’s the wrong mistake to make given everything that’s going on in the U.S. right now,” said Tim Calkins, a marketing professor at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. “There’s so much emotion right now around race in this country that this was a high-risk move, and clearly it’s not going over very well.“I think it was well intentioned, but they’re going to have a lot of explaining to do,” Mr. Calkins added. “They did not release this ahead of time, so they went for the surprise. They got that, but at the same time, they now have a big problem with feedback and people being upset.”Ram approached Dr. King’s estate about using his voice in the commercial, said Eric D. Tidwell, the managing director of Intellectual Properties Management, the licenser of the estate.“Once the final creative was presented for approval, it was reviewed to ensure it met our standard integrity clearances,” Mr. Tidwell said in a statement on Sunday night. “We found that the overall message of the ad embodied Dr. King’s philosophy that true greatness is achieved by serving others.”Fiat Chrysler Automobiles U.S. said in a statement: “We worked closely with the representatives of the Martin Luther King Jr. estate to receive the necessary approvals, and estate representatives were a very important part of the creative process every step of the way.”The Super Bowl regularly draws elaborate schemes from advertisers, and this year is no exception. Tourism Australia — the Australian government agency responsible for attracting international visitors to the country — decided last April that it would buy a Super Bowl spot as part of a broader campaign geared toward drawing more visitors from North America.AdvertisementThe form it took: a big movie campaign for “Dundee,” a sequel to the movie “Crocodile Dundee,” starring the actors Danny McBride and Chris Hemsworth.“We did a scan around things like the Grammys and the Academy Awards and other sporting events like the N.B.A. Finals and the World Series, but the event that really stops this country is the Super Bowl,” said John O’Sullivan, the managing director of Tourism Australia. “It’s such a spectacle, right? If you look at it from a foreigner’s point of view, it’s this massive event which I think surpasses things like the Grand Slams in tennis and the Champions League final.”North America is the second-most-valuable market for Australian tourism after mainland China, and one that the agency has decided to focus on in the last six months, Mr. O’Sullivan said. While many people want to visit Australia, he said, the trick for the country is moving up from a “bucket list” destination to a place that people will go in the near future.The concept for the campaign was created by the ad agency Droga5, whose founder, David Droga, is Australian. Content tied to the pretend movie will morph after the Super Bowl ad and will continue to use Danny McBride and Chris Hemsworth, Mr. Droga said.“The beauty is there’s also a lot of content that moves with Chris and Danny that’s sort of them exploring the country as friends — as an Aussie showing around a mate,” he said.Mr. Droga also noted that the campaign for “Dundee” benefited from the support of “Aussiewood” stars like Mr. Jackman and Ms. Robbie, who worked on it for “nothing.”“If we had to pay commercial rights for those people,” then it “would be the most expensive ad in the Super Bowl maybe ever,” he said.Companies continue to use the Super Bowl platform to promote humanitarian causes either initiated or supported by their brands. It’s a type of marketing that promotes feelings over facts.One final Super Bowl connection: Mr. O’Sullivan noted that he spent a year of high school in Lebanon, Pa., making him a Philadelphia Eagles fan.Advertisement“Typically, you see the great work is front-loaded, and I guess my hope is that the better work is coming,” Wendy Clark, the chief executive of DDB North America and a former marketing executive at Coca-Cola, said at the start of the game’s second quarter. “At the end of the day, a Super Bowl ad is about epic, over-the-top production value,” and the first quarter “was a little quiet in the end.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Still, Ms. Clark was a fan of the Tide ad and the Doritos-Mountain Dew ad featuring Peter Dinklage and Morgan Freeman lip-syncing to Missy Elliott and Busta Rhymes.“The complete flip to Morgan Freeman, it’s just so good,” she said. “There’s a surprise aspect there, and it’s really enjoyable watching those two characters rap — the complete 180 is fantastic.”She added, “Functionally, you’re also thinking, ‘Oh, my God, I would eat those together.”Tide drew the laughs heading into the second quarter with a meta commercial starring David Harbour (“Stranger Things”) that showed a slew of setups for other ads before interrupting itself with, “No, it’s a Tide ad.”“I want to see how they bring it to life and on social,” Ms. Clark said. “I assume they’re going to comment on every single ad now from their handle.” (That’s @Tide on Twitter.)Stella Artois ran a commercial featuring Matt Damon urging people to buy limited-edition chalices in order to give years of clean water to people in developing countries through a partnership with Water.org, which works for safe water and sanitation. That was joined by a somber commercial from Budweiser, set to the song “Stand by Me,” focused on the company’s efforts to deliver cans of water to people affected by natural disasters.“Millennials like brands that link themselves to a social cause,” Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business, said. “What Stella Artois is doing with Water.org, I think, is really smart.”Pringles is running its first Super Bowl ad, starring the comedian Bill Hader, as it tries to popularize the notion of “stacking” chips with different flavors to arrive at a new, artificially flavored snack. (And, presumably, to encourage people to buy more than one pack of the chips at a time.)AdvertisementYuvraj Arora, a senior vice president of marketing at Kellogg, explained how to use the process to approximate the taste of chicken wings. “You take barbecue Pringles, buffalo ranch Pringles and ranch Pringles and you get a chicken-wing-like experience without the mess,” he said.Mr. Arora noted that the way the millennial generation interacts with food, especially on social media, was an inspiration for the idea.“Food is so central to millennials’ lifestyle,” he said. “All around, you see there’s mashups, new flavor experiences and a number of unique flavors.”In an era of cord-cutting and ad-skipping, the Super Bowl is a sweet salve for the nation’s marketers. There’s no bigger stage for advertisers — last year’s game drew more than 111 million viewers — and that’s why they’re willing to shell out millions of dollars to be on it for 30 seconds.Last year, commercials with social and political messages stole the show, but this year’s crop of advertisers seemed to steer clear of such commentary and aimed for laughs and nostalgia.Advertisement“I’m a little bit surprised,” Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business, said. “Some of the best ads over the last 10 years have focused on female empowerment, like the Audi daughter ad.”Women are generally much less visible in Super Bowl ads than men, even as Nielsen data shows that women were 47 percent of the audience for last year’s game. Mr. Taylor, who recently studied Super Bowl ads from 2008 to 2017, found that 76 percent of the commercials showed a man as a principal character, while 43 percent featured a woman as a principal character.Susan Credle, the global chief creative officer at the agency FCB, said Super Bowl advertisers may be “concerned about looking opportunistic versus supportive.” And humor, she noted, was particularly appealing given the social and political climate.“Sometimes when the world is troubled or America is feeling a little — well, I wouldn’t say it was an up 2017 for everybody — I think there is a tendency to want to balance out the energy,” Ms. Credle said. “Lightheartedness and a little fun and joy is probably a good antidote to the reality that we’re sitting in.”Fans of HBO’s “Game of Thrones” have been buzzing about a commercial for Doritos and Mountain Dew that stars the actors Peter Dinklage and Morgan Freeman, as well as the musicians Missy Elliott and Busta Rhymes. The brands, owned by Pepsi, cast Mr. Dinklage to represent fire, for a new spicy Doritos flavor, while Mr. Morgan plays ice for a new kind of Mountain Dew.Greg Lyons, the chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit, said the casting was not a reference to Mr. Dinklage’s “Game of Thrones” character, who advises a queen who owns dragons. The actor, he said, is “fiery on his own.”Mr. Lyons said, “He was in ‘Elf’ — he was pretty fiery in that as well.”While it has never been easier for advertisers to reach vast numbers of people around the world, thanks to the internet, the lure of the Super Bowl is the one huge audience it provides. Advertisers spent a combined $534 million on ads before, during and after the game last year, according to the research firm Kantar. The company said that the roughly $5 million a 30-second commercial cost last year compared to $2.5 million for 30 seconds in the National Football Conference championship game and $1.9 million for the same time in the Academy Awards.Advertisement“It’s a finite amount of inventory,” Gibbs Haljun, managing director of media investment at GroupM, the media buying arm of WPP. “There’s only one game, it’s only on once a year, the ratings are relatively stable and it is what it is.”Still, it appeared that NBC was selling at least some spots down to the wire, as illustrated by a last-minute buy from Wix.com that the company announced on Friday. In January, Wix.com was promoting its decision to sit out of this year’s game and arranging press interviews with its chief marketing officer about alternative plans for the money.NBC said in an email late Friday that it had sold all of its ads for the game.The network, which is owned by Comcast, has had the dual challenge this year of selling ads for both the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics, which will begin on Friday.“I can’t remember the last time that occurred,” Mr. Haljun said, “so this is kind of an odd challenge for them and continues to make the negotiations a little more interesting and robust.”Jason M. Bailey contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byIn 2009, Democrats controlled both the state senate and house in 27 states, the Republicans 14. After the 2016 elections, Republicans controlled both branches of the legislatures in 32 states to 14 for the Democrats.The importance of these trends cannot be overstated. State legislatures not only control redistricting in most states — a key to determining which party will control the House after the 2020 census — but also serve as a training ground where politicians learn the ropes of winning elections and governing. In this respect, state legislatures are a key source of new talent.Andrea Dew Steele, the organization’s president and founder, describes Emerge as “the beginning of the food chain,” performing basic training for women, many of them seeking office for the first time.Indivisible has played a leading role in turning out voters at congressional town halls to voice their opposition to Trump’s plan to repeal Obamacare — a tactic explicitly copied from the Tea Party’s organizing drive in 2009-2010.While support for these relatively new groups on the left is growing, the track record of some of the more established organizations is mixed.Money is not the only factor in politics — if it were, the efforts of these progressive groups would be doomed.Republicans and conservative organizations have had the financial advantage in the fight for state legislatures, and they will continue to have it during the 2018 election cycle.If we look at enthusiasm, however, Democrats have the clear advantage this year. Take special legislative elections.Malbin compared the data to prior years and his findings are noteworthy: So far this year, there are already 209 Democratic challengers, more than in any of the previous seven election cycles — and more than double the 78 Republican challengers in 2009, the year that led up to the Republican wave election of 2010.While motivation is high on the left, there is no guarantee that it will be well directed. Many of the newly involved enthusiasts are political neophytes.In a phone interview, Skocpol said the quality and effectiveness of Indivisible chapters “ran the gamut” in terms of efficacy, with only some developing structured organizations. There are groups, she said, that are equipped to mobilize members to act on specific issues and to get voters to the polls, while others are far less prepared to engage on either front.Along similar lines, a Democratic operative with extensive experience in grass-roots organizing — who asked not to be identified — told me thatWe are working with many of these new organizations in a variety of ways. As we have non-disclosure agreements with all of the organizations we work with, details have to come from them. The growth in activism that these groups have both spurred and harnessed outstrips anything I have seen in decades previously. That said, this activism is pushing against strong structural headwinds and entrenched power. Further, still unknown is whether the geographic distribution of this activism will be aligned with and find the political fulcrum points.By geographic distribution, this operative means that the renewed vitality on the left is most heavily concentrated in New York, Massachusetts and California, which are already Democratic.Resilience in the face of setbacks will be a key test of the long-range viability of activist liberal organizations across the country.Even if Democrats were to win every single 2018 House and Senate race for seats representing places that Hillary Clinton won or that Trump won by less than 3 percentage points — a pretty good midterm by historical standards — they could still fall short of the House majority and lose five Senate seats.The combination of Republican gerrymandering and the clustering of Democratic voters in urban centers “has moved the median House seat well to the right of the nation,” Wasserman notes.The result is what Wasserman calls a structural “partisan bias” favoring Republicans in Congressional elections:Trump lost the national popular vote by 2.1 percentage points, but Republicans won the median House seat by 3.4 points and the median Senate seat by 3.6 points.In the past, Republican commitments to building strength at the local level have been sustained by trade associations and corporations with a financial stake in decisions made at the county and state level. There is every reason to believe these interests will continue to invest time and money to protect their profits.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAddressing patrolmen and officers assembled in the Van Nostrand Theatre on Long Island on July 28, Trump was fully aware that his remarks would prove incendiary:When you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon — you just see them thrown in, rough — I said, please don’t be too nice. (Laughter.) Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, don’t hit their head and they’ve just killed somebody — don’t hit their head. I said, you can take the hand away, okay?Underlying Trump’s defiance of law enforcement norms is a calculated strategy advocating the use of force, with the twofold goal of pushing liberals back on their heels and affirming the instincts of his most avid supporters.Trump’s repeated attacks on liberal orthodoxy highlight how Democrats are themselves bound — hogtied is not too strong a word — by the conflicting needs and goals of the various constituencies in their multiracial, multiethnic coalition — a coalition that has been vulnerable to wedge issue attacks for 50 years.The survey asked whether seven statements apply more to Democrats or Republicans — “will take the right approach on health care,” “understands what it is like for regular Americans;” “will fight for people like you,” “will reduce the power of special interests in Congress,” “will cut taxes for the middle class,” “will do more to ensure that people are rewarded for hard work” and “will help improve the economy and create jobs.”Democrats held the advantage on one of the seven, health care, and that was by four points. Republicans were ahead on every other issue. Most important, Republicans led Democrats by a solid 19 points on ensuring that people are rewarded for hard work and by a devastating 35 points on improving the economy and creating jobs — just what “A Better Deal” claims to do.When Schumer, Pelosi and other Democrats seek to make the case for a “better deal,” they face an audience primed to disbelieve every word they say.I asked Pete Brodnitz, the founder of Expedition Strategies, one of the firms that conducted this survey, whether he thought there was a link between Trump’s emphasis on immigration, Latino gangs, and crime and the Democrats’ efforts to shift the agenda to economic policy.“This has been building for months but it has become pronounced recently,” he wrote in an email. The Trump administration hopes “Democrats will react by defending immigration and look ‘soft on gangs,’ ” aware that “if they push the envelope on this issue they can get coverage for their efforts and drown out Democratic efforts to change the topic.”Brodnitz described Trump’s tactics as offering “ideas that sound really outlandish but that they believe have popular support — at least with their core voters” and that the Long Island speech was based on “the hope that Democrats would look more concerned about criminals than about crime and its victims.”To put it mildly, it has been difficult for the Democrats to recruit key white voters to consider an economic agenda in the face of concerted efforts by the Trump campaign and his administration to shift the focus to crime.I asked a prominent political scientist — a man with generally moderate views — for his reaction to Trump’s comments in the Long Island speech. His answer surprised me. Requesting anonymity in order to speak candidly, he replied:I think, yeah, a lot of people, whites anyway, think that the police are too constrained. When I watch the anarchists tear up Oakland, which happens pretty regularly, a part of me thinks “where are the 1968 Chicago police when we really need them?” These thugs behave the way they do in part because there are no consequences. Also, we see a lot of cases on TV where someone is resisting arrest, the police wrestle him down and hit him a few times, and then there are complaints about excessive force. Heavens’ sakes, if someone doesn’t comply with an order, what are the police supposed to do?One question Haidt’s survey asks respondents is whether they agree or disagree with the idea that “a criminal should be made to suffer in the same way that his victim suffered.”Haidt said “progressives strongly reject it, and it correlates fairly well with politics — the farther right you are, the more you endorse it.”What, then, does Pinker make of Trump’s Long Island speech?It appeals to one of our worst angels, the desire for “rough justice” — quick and brutal revenge inflicted on a suspected wrongdoer. The ultimate evolutionary rationale for revenge, vendettas, blood feuds, mob violence, summary justice, lynching, vigilantes, deadly ethnic riots, the code of the streets, and other forms of rough justice is deterrence: if a person anticipates getting beaten up for exploiting people, he’ll think twice about exploiting them.Trump, in Pinker’s view, has focused on the most primitive and regressive emotions among voters:So yes, Trump is wisecracking about overturning millennia of progress in taming our brutish instincts for instant retaliation, and discarding the norms and institutions of justice that our better angels have crafted and perfected.Pinker sees this as part of an ongoing struggle.The appeal of regressive impulses is perennial. The forces of liberalism, modernity, cosmopolitanism, the open society, and Enlightenment values always have to push against our innate tribalism, authoritarianism, and thirst for vengeance.And yes,at times in history the darker forces prevail — the two world wars, the American crime wave from the 1960s to early 1990s, the rise of civil war in the developing world over that same period. These darker forces, moreover, are not just raw instincts, but often rationalized in ideologies.The connection may not seem obvious at first, but Pinker’s comments are directly relevant to the Democratic Party’s attempt to counter Trump with liberal economic policies.Not only is their adversary a man ungoverned by rule or tradition, but he is a man who has taken “our impulses of authoritarianism and tribalism,” to quote Pinker one last time, and constructed “an edifice of rationalization around them.”This puts the Democrats in a dangerous position. The more they succeed in pushing Trump up against a wall, politically speaking, the more they risk the possibility that the he will inflict real damage, whether it is hostile engagement abroad or increasingly aggressive attacks on democratic institutions at home.It is ominous that Trump has already hit upon the use of force as his preferred solution when confronting domestic law-and-order issues. One hates to think of what a man with his mind-set can do with a nuclear arsenal and the world as his stage.the strange specter of an American president’s seeming affection for strongmen and authoritarians created such a cognitive dissonance among my generation of conservatives — who had come of age under existential threat from the Soviet Union — that it was almost impossible to believe.Conservativeshave maintained an unnerving silence as instability has ensued. To carry on in the spring of 2017 as if what was happening was anything approaching normalcy required a determined suspension of critical faculties.What Flake recognizes, and what Democrats are only coming to realize, is that Trump represents a systemic assault on the legitimacy of America’s democratic processes, an attack that needs to be countered by far more that a modest collection of economic policies organized under the rubric “a better deal.”Flake’s open defection is an important step. If it is to become a serious problem for Trump, Flake’s Republican colleagues — Susan Collins, Bob Corker, Lindsey Graham, John McCain, Lisa Murkowksi, Rob Portman and Ben Sasse come to mind — will have to join him and not just one vote at a time. For a challenge to Trump to be effective, Republicans’ “unnerving silence” will have to crack.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOff the ShelfWant to know how tough is it for many Americans to talk about their financial concerns?About as tough as any topic you can imagine. Kathleen Burns Kingsbury lays it on the line in her new book, “Breaking Money Silence (Praeger, $37).“Almost half of Americans say that the most difficult topic to discuss with others is personal finance and they would rather discuss death, politics or religion” she writes in the book’s opening lines. “Take a minute to let that information sink in,” she continues. “Many people would rather discuss dying than finances.”Ms. Kingsbury, a financial services industry consultant, explains the goal of her book in her subtitle: “How to Shatter Money Taboos, Talk More Openly About Finances and Live a Richer Life.”It’s a worthwhile objective, even if she stumbles occasionally. More on that later, but first the good news.Ms. Kingsbury forces you to think about several things that are important to achieving financial health, starting with the phrase that comprises part of her title “money silence,” her term for someone’s refusal to talk and ask questions about personal finance.She scatters explanations throughout the book for why the sounds of (financial) silence might occur.They range from embarrassment — people may be reluctant to talk about money because they are ashamed that they haven’t saved enough, or that they don’t know much about personal finance and so they don’t want to ask “dumb” questions — to relationship discord. If one person is a spender and another is not, discussions can get heated when the credit card bill arrives, and so people avoid money discussions.There are more subtle reasons as well. Parents who are struggling financially may not want their adult children to know about their financial woes, for example, so they keep quiet and that may create ambivalence. If you aren’t sure how you really feel about money — Is it the root of all evil, as some people believe, or a potential force for good in your life and the lives of others? — you may not want to think about it.All this is on top of what Ms. Kingsbury believes is the biggest reason for money silence: misplaced propriety. Some people feel it is simply wrong to talk about their personal finances, even if they need help — or can help someone else.You can understand any or all of those reactions, but none of them are helpful to your overall financial health.Curating the research on the nonfinancial part of personal finance is where she shines.And she is also good on basic advice.She says, for example, that “money compatibility is an important factor to consider in a romantic relationship,” going further by suggesting questions you could ask a potential partner early on. A representative query is: “How much financial autonomy do you want in the relationship?”Unfortunately, as Ms. Kingsbury is laying all this out, she has a tendency to get in her own way.References to personal experience are often helpful, but the constant examples in this book from the author’s own life are distracting. We read multiple times about her husband’s previous financial missteps. And in an attempt to emphasize the importance of her topic she tends to make unsupported, and hyperbolic, statements, such as claiming that a reluctance to talk about money is “bankrupting businesses and making it almost impossible for the next generation to be healthy around money.”She also tends to repeat herself. You can find a variation on her excellent opening quote about money just six pages later, and her seemingly constant mention of her previous books gets annoying.It is difficult to learn about a topic unless you are willing to ask questions. If Ms. Kingsbury’s book encourages people to engage and seek more information, it will have performed a valuable service.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIn a period of otherwise extended market calm, geopolitics have been driving periodic bouts of volatility. Even small investors have been making bets on the impact politics can have on stocks and other asset classes. After last week’s sell-off, I got a wave of questions from people asking whether Mr. Trump might be impeached and if they should sell stocks.AdvertisementI obviously can’t answer the first question. As for selling stocks, my answer, as it has been consistently since the election, is “no,” at least not because of the troubles swirling around the president.AdvertisementConsider what has happened in the days since the headline-making news. By the middle of this week, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had recovered virtually everything it lost after the Trump-Russia news broke, and on Thursday it closed at a new high.Brazil’s Bovespa index regained much of the ground it lost last week and was in positive territory for the year to date.Within a month of Brexit, European stocks had recovered nearly all their losses. This year European stock markets have been notching new highs.Political crises often do not in themselves have lasting negative effects on the stock markets. London’s FTSE recovered soon after the shock of the Brexit vote, and indexes in the United States and Brazil have turned up since the initial reaction to last week’s crises in those countries.Reactions of world markets to recent crisesF.T.S.E. 100BRITAINJUNE 23, 2016  Brexit vote passes, as Britain votes to leave the European Union.6,6006,4006,2006,000Day after5,800108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTERS. & P. 500UNITED STATESMAY 16, 2017  Reports surface that President Trump had tried to stop an F.B.I. investigation of his former national security adviser.2,5002,4502,4002,3502,3002,250Day after2,200108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTERBovespaBRAZILMAY 17, 2017  News breaks that President Michel Temer of Brazil had taken millions of dollars in graft payments.70,00068,00066,00064,00062,000Day after60,000108642246810DAYS BEFOREEVENTDAYS AFTEREven some of Wall Street’s most famous and successful investors have been struggling this year to turn political upheaval into market gains. Paulson & Company and Soros Fund Management, two of the best-known global macro hedge funds, which make bets on geopolitical events, lost billions last year according to an annual hedge fund ranking compiled by LCH Investments. Paul Tudor Jones’s Tudor Investment, another macro fund, was flat, and Mr. Jones recently told investors he’s taking on more risk and shifting to more quantitative strategies in an effort to enhance performance.A macro hedge fund index compiled by Hedge Fund Research is down nearly 1 percent since Jan. 1 and over 4 percent for the last 12 months, one of the worst performing hedge fund indexes. Meanwhile, the S.&P. 500 gained almost 10 percent in 2016 and is up more than 7 percent this year.By and large, “investors should tune out political events,” said James B. Stack, president of InvesTech Research and Stack Financial Management, who has done a study of what he calls “crisis events” and their effect on markets. “Historically speaking, and as a seasoned investor, I’d say investors should just ignore geopolitical events like Brexit or whatever is happening in Brazil.”The problem, Mr. Stack’s research has found, is that “geopolitical events may be widely feared, and there will often be a knee-jerk market reaction when they’re unexpected, but seldom do they have a lasting impact. Underlying economic trends and monetary policy are far more important.”AdvertisementMarkus Schomer, chief economist at the asset manager PineBridge Investments, made a similar point. As fundamental investors with longer time horizons, “we try not to be distracted by the political noise,” he said. “I’ve been telling even our traders with shorter time horizons that what we’re seeing doesn’t really affect the economy or monetary policy, which is more important for markets than anything else.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Stack noted that stocks declined sharply after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But the bear market and recession that followed the technology bubble that exploded in 2000 were already well underway by then. September 2001 turned out to be an unusually bad time to sell stocks: By New Year’s Day 2002, little more than three months after the post-9/11 low reached on Sept. 21, the S.&P. 500 had gained close to 20 percent.A more recent example was the showdown over the federal debt ceiling in 2011, when Standard & Poor’s downgraded United States government securities for the first time amid fears the government might default on its debt. “Stocks dropped 15 percent in less than two months and we were on the brink of a bear market,” Mr. Stack said. “Once the crisis was resolved, stocks came roaring back,” and had regained all their losses by year-end.Of 11 major geopolitical events examined by Mr. Stack’s firm, only two — the Nazi invasion of France in May 1940, and Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor in December 1941 — led to market losses over one-week, three-month and one-year periods (and in the case of Pearl Harbor, the one-year decline was less than 1 percent).President John F. Kennedy’s assassination had no discernible impact: Stocks were up more than 20 percent a year later.As geopolitical crises go, those were pretty big shocks to markets and investor psychology. So far, nothing in the Trump administration has come close. Still, expectations that Mr. Trump and a Republican Congress would succeed in enacting business- and shareholder-friendly tax and regulatory changes are part of what has driven recent market gains.Mr. Stack noted that measures of confidence among small businesses, chief executives and consumers are at or near record levels. “There’s no doubt that expectations have accelerated since the election,” he said. “So the question is whether political turmoil will turn those expectations upside down,” leading to a loss of confidence and lower consumer spending. That could happen, but so far, “we’re not seeing any evidence of that,” he said.He said comparisons to the Watergate-era bear market of 1973-74 were off base, because then the country was in recession, the Arab oil crisis sent gasoline prices surging, inflation was raging and interest rates hit record highs. Arguably, President Richard M. Nixon’s abandonment of the gold standard and the transition to market-determined currency exchange rates had more to do with plunging stock prices than his crumbling presidency.Mr. Schomer said a failure to act upon many of Mr. Trump’s spending and tax proposals might not be such a bad thing for markets, given that the United States economy is already at or close to full employment and doesn’t need additional stimulus. “At the end of the day, the only reason we’ll have a recession is if the Fed is forced to raise interest rates too quickly, unless we have a massive crisis, which I don’t see happening,” he said.AdvertisementIf anything, history suggests that long-term investors should buy stocks after markets fall on bad geopolitical news, not sell. But that’s not to say this time won’t prove to be an exception, or that markets won’t correct for other reasons.Whatever happens with President Trump, the United States is in the ninth year of the second-longest bull market since World War II; none have made it past 10 years. Valuations are getting stretched. Sooner or later, there will be another correction, and eventually a bear market.Nonetheless, Mr. Schomer says he sees no imminent end to the bull market. “We’re not going to see a 25 percent surge this year, but this economic cycle is so slow and steady with so few imbalances, we could end up with 8 to 10 percent gains the next few years and a much greater degree of overvaluation.”For his part, Mr. Stack said: “We still believe this market will hit new highs in 2017, but the low volatility and the high valuations suggest this is not a low-risk market. It’s not a market in which you should be investing large sums of new capital.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byTake a recent survey showing a fundamental shift in the attitude of Republicans toward the value of higher education.From 2010 to 2015, solid majorities of Republicans and Democrats agreed that institutions of higher learning had a positive effect on America. In 2010, Republicans were 58-32 positive and Democrats 65-22. For Democrats, this pattern grew stronger over time, reaching 72-19 in the most recent polling in June.At a time when countries around the world are doing all they can to attract and retain talented individuals to come to their shores to build and grow innovative companies, the Trump Administration is signaling its intent to do the exact opposite.Imagine if we had sent half of Silicon Valley’s immigrant entrepreneurs away. The 44 immigrant-founded billion-dollar start-ups now in the U.S. have created an average of 760 American jobs per company. Without these immigrant entrepreneurs, it is unlikely America would stand as the beacon of innovation that it is today.Countless analyses have demonstrated that Trump won the election by combining support from traditional Republican voters with a surge in backing from constituencies that contemporary economic and cultural developments have left behind.In recent decades, this class has become increasingly influential in setting cultural standards and in shaping contemporary values. Its success has provoked deepening resentment, to say the least.Far from spending their college years in a meritocratic melting pot, the New Elite spend school with people who are mostly just like them — which might not be so bad, except that so many of them have been ensconced in affluent suburbs from birth and have never been outside the bubble of privilege.hardworking, highly educated, jet-setting meritocrats who feel they are the deserving winners of a tough, worldwide economic competition — and many of them, as a result, have an ambivalent attitude toward those of us who didn’t succeed so spectacularly. Perhaps most noteworthy, they are becoming a trans-global community of peers who have more in common with one another than with their countrymen back home.Picture a coffee shop in a big city almost anywhere on earth. It is filled with stylish, firm-bodied people aged under 50 drinking $5 coffees. Fresh from yoga class, they are reading New Yorker magazine articles about inequality before returning to their tiny $1.5 million apartments. This is the cultural elite.Trump, Kuper explains, labels this constituency“the elite” but not all class members are rich. Adjunct professors, NGO workers and unemployed screenwriters belong alongside Mark Zuckerberg. Rather, what defines the cultural elite is education. Most of its members went to brand-name universities, and consider themselves deserving rather than entitled. They believe in facts and experts. Most grew up comfortably off in the post-1970s boom. Their education is their insurance policy and, so almost whatever their income, they suffer less economic anxiety than older or lesser educated people. Their political utopia is high-tax, egalitarian, feminist and green.The reaction against this class, which found expression in the 2016 election, has proved deeply troubling in some quarters.Richard Florida, in an email to me, was harsh in his assessment of consequences of the current anti-elite reaction:The United States is the first advanced nation since Japan and Germany during World War II to turn its back on progress and liberalism.In doing so, the United States threatens its status as “the most innovative, most knowledge driven, most powerful nation on earth,” according to Florida:The political backlash from this divide can kill us. It is the only thing that can hold back our cities and stop talented and ambitious people from coming here.Such people have portable “achieved” identities, based on educational and career success which makes them generally comfortable and confident with new places and people.The anywhere voter values “autonomy, mobility and novelty” while giving much lower priority to group identity, tradition and patriotic expression. They view globalization, immigration, self-realization and meritocracy as positive concepts.Somewhere voters, in Goodhart’s description, aremore rooted and have “ascribed” identities — Scottish farmer, working class Geordie, Cornish housewife — based on group belonging and particular places, which is why they find rapid change more unsettling. One core group of Somewheres have been the so-called ‘left behind’ – mainly older white working class men with little education.Most are neither bigots nor xenophobes, according to Goodhart, and they generally accept the liberalization of “attitudes to race, gender and sexuality,” but this acceptance hasbeen more selective and tentative, and has not extended to enthusiasm for mass immigration or European integration.Among voters for Clinton, 27 percent lived in their hometown and 43 percent lived 2 hours or more away from their hometown; among Trump supporters, 36 percent lived in their hometown and 37 percent lived 2 or more hours away.James Stimson, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, sent me his own critical assessment of this phenomenon:Give a randomly selected group the choice, stay or go, and those who choose to go will be profoundly different from those who stay. And thus when we observe the behavior of those who live in distressed areas, we are not observing the effect of economic decline on the working class, we are observing a highly selected group of people who faced economic adversity and choose to stay at home and accept it when others sought and found opportunity elsewhere.Those who choose to leave such communities and find their fortune elsewhere are, in Stimson’s view,ambitious and confident in their abilities. Those who are fearful, conservative, in the social sense, and lack ambition stay and accept decline.Given that, Stimson says:I don’t see them as once proud workers, now dispossessed, but rather as people of limited ambition who might have sought better opportunity elsewhere and did not. I see their social problems more as explanations of why they didn’t seek out opportunity when they might have than as the result of lost employment.Stimson then poses another question: “Should the Democratic Party cater to these voters?” His answer is an unequivocal no:The [rural] working class was once mainstream America, the most common and typical of all of us. It is now the residue of failed social mobility, when most have been mobile. After decades of social mobility, that residue is now more distinctive, it is those who are not willing to grab the ring, but rather to remain in the hometown and fear change and others. These people should be Trump voters.While Stimson’s analysis is harsh — criticizing as it does many hardworking men and women whose loyalties to family, friend, community and church may supersede personal ambition — he captures a crucial element of contemporary politics. This is the potential of an angry electorate to provide a key base of support to a politician like Trump who capitalizes on resentment, intensifies racial and ethnic hostility and lies with abandon as a means to his ends.While Trump pulled out an Electoral College victory by mobilizing resentful voters and turning out more traditional Republicans, there are significant questions about the continuing viability of his coalition.“I think that ‘somewhere people’ are a fast shrinking sliver of the American population.” As the economy changes, Frey argued,younger people, millennials and upcoming generations are increasingly moving to where the jobs are, and are more comfortable with diversity and global connectivity.If Democrats have one thing to be grateful for, it’s Trump’s failure to live up to his campaign promises on health care and taxes, at least so far.In practice, Trump is going in the opposite direction, pressing for a radical alteration of health care policy that directly conflicts with the interests of millions of his supporters, and for legislation catering to the demands of the wealthiest Republicans for reduced tax burdens.We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, the forgotten people, the forgotten men and women of this country, who built our country.American politics has become fluid and volatile. Income differences have been supplanted by cultural and social practices closely linked to levels of educational attainment. Political partisanship is now firmly linked to race, with whiteness defining one of the two major political parties. Religiosity has taken on new meaning — if one can call it that — with devout churchgoers supporting an avowed libertine. In that sense, both sides agree that morality has become a matter of personal discretion. Partisans impute evil to their adversaries, and the meritocratic elect have barred the gates.Trump has intuitively exploited this chaos. He is not at the end of his string, not by a long shot. His life demonstrates his will to win. His vulnerabilities and his pathologies are also astoundingly clear. While his critics are convinced that Trump the chameleon is masquerading as the protector of the left behind, he has in fact tapped into vast anger over immigration, which has shot up over the past 50 years — and there is no good reason to believe that this anger will dissipate by 2020.The question that remains is whether President Trump can continue to exploit the fissures he opened as candidate Trump. The answers history provides are not altogether reassuring.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS