AdvertisementWASHINGTON — In the halls of the Justice Department, regardless of which party is in power, the refrain is always the same. Officials like to say that, unlike at other government agencies, their mission is right there in the name.But I’ve covered the Justice Department under five attorneys general from both parties, and it’s never as simple as that. Each attorney general has strong views about what it means to do justice.AdvertisementAdvertisementThese moments, when we see the personal convictions behind the bureaucracy, bring the Justice Department beat to life. They can be dramatic: John Ashcroft’s resistance, from his hospital bed, to White House meddling, comes to mind. But sometimes they are clearest only in hindsight. Michael B. Mukasey promised to stabilize and depoliticize the department, and he is still highly regarded among career officials who say he meant it.Mr. Sessions is carrying out one of the sharpest U-turns in Justice Department philosophy in modern history. Times reporters have chronicled his reversals on civil rights, marijuana policy, immigration and more. If we do our job well, readers should get a sense of why these policies are taking shape.Often these issues do not break along party lines, which make them interesting in a city where today’s battle lines are so clear.One small example: Ms. Yates pushed for more lenient sentencing laws and an expanded educational system in federal prison. Mr. Sessions is adamantly opposed. But another of her signature decisions was ordering prosecutors not to go easy on Wall Street executives. That fits neatly with Mr. Sessions’s philosophy. “I was taught, if they violated the law, you charge them,” he said in 2010.The politics of law enforcement are as murky now as ever. In the 1980s and 1990s, both parties united in the face of the crack epidemic to pass strict laws and mandatory minimum sentences. President Bill Clinton signed a bipartisan crime bill in 1994 that toughened sentences and paid for more prisons.AdvertisementFor many conservatives, that makes him a man of principle. For many liberals, that makes him dangerous.For me, that makes for a great story.See More »Go to Home Page »