AdvertisementSupported byHe said he didn’t mean to sound cocky. But then he did: “I made the Cecil iconic!” he declared.On a Monday night a week after his residency began, Mr. Johnson was laughing and cooking before cameras and a boom microphone as Phil Rosenthal, the creator of “Everybody Loves Raymond,” interviewed the chef for his new Netflix food and travel show, “Somebody Feed Phil.”“They could have picked any chef in the world, and they picked me,” Mr. Johnson crowed.On his Chefs Club menu, rice makes more than one appearance, and rises to a star attraction in the form of “con’con,” a dish of jollof sticky rice about the size of a moon pie, sweetened with coconut and topped with an eggplant curry and basil. It exudes comfort and grandeur at once.Mr. Parsons said diners from outside Harlem were reluctant to trek during the week to the restaurant, at the corner of St. Nicholas Avenue and West 118th Street. And the menu was “too exotic,” he added, for the Cecil to become a weeknight habit for neighborhood residents.“You’re not actually looking for a cinnamon-dusted guinea fried hen with piri-piri rice on the side,” he said.Mr. Smalls, who remains an owner but had no hand in the new steakhouse menu, disagreed, blaming poor management and a business plan that he said failed to adequately adjust when a planned lunchtime seating never materialized.As the owners tinkered to find the right formula, the restaurants closed, then reopened. Caught in the middle was Mr. Johnson, who started out as chef de cuisine of the Cecil and ended up as executive chef of both restaurants. The job, though, came with little autonomy.Mr. Johnson, 33, said he needed to lay a foundation for himself; his wife, Samiyyah Chapman; and their 3-month-old twins. He told his bosses he wanted a bigger role and more restaurants.“When they said to me they really didn’t want to do anything else, I had to go look in the mirror and say, ‘Would I be content here working for the next 10 years?’” he said. “At that point, I don’t mean to sound cocky, but I’m just better than that.” He resigned in June.Mr. Johnson has forged ahead alone in other ventures. He was trying to persuade Stephane De Baets, a founder and the president of Chefs Club, to invest in Ingrained Hospitality when another idea came to Mr. De Baets. “Why don’t you come do a pop-up to show me first your cuisine?” Mr. De Baets recalled asking him.That success led to the longer stay at Chefs Club, a cavernous space with an open kitchen where diners can watch the chefs in action.Mr. Johnson has filled the menu with brightly colored dishes and flavors, seen most obviously in a shared plate of cornmeal-crusted sea bass, seasoned with turmeric, that takes up an entire bowl and leaves just enough room for purple sweet potatoes, roasted carrots, papaya and long beans.A few dishes, like udon noodles with braised goat, and piri-piri prawns, have followed Mr. Johnson to Chefs Club from the Cecil. His favorite dessert is a rice milk pop of raspberry and hibiscus with crispy puffed rice drizzled on top.At Chefs Club, Mr. Johnson also did something he could never do at the Cecil: He put his name on it, placing the neon letters “JJ” in the window. He also required the restaurant to play his days-long soundtrack, which he commissioned a D.J. to compile. On a recent night, several diners bobbed their heads and swayed in their seats.Music plays as much of a role in dining as food, Mr. Johnson said, recalling how his Puerto Rican grandmother played salsa while she prepared sofrito and plantain dumplings, and how his black American grandmother, raised in the Rocky Mountains, played Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson and Earth Wind & Fire as she made cherry pies and traditional Southern food.His taste runs to ‘90s neo-soul and hip-hop. “That’s part of the diaspora,” he said. “That’s when I feel like black artists were having the best times in their careers. They were able to really put their music out. Like Biggie, Tupac, Wu-Tang, Mariah, Erykah Badu, they were talking about real stuff that was happening in our lives.”For $360, a diner can have everything on the menu in a tasting that Mr. Johnson calls “It Was All a Dream,” a nod to The Notorious B.I.G.’s “Juicy.”“This is a dream for me,” he said. “I get to the cook the food of who I am and listen to the music that I want to listen to.”Mr. Johnson said he also wants to create jobs and hire people who look like him. His give-back attitude appears to come from his parents, Marcela Johnson, a retired teacher, and Joe Johnson, a bookkeeper who still runs a youth basketball program in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania, where they raised their son and his younger sister. The family traveled on vacation to Barbados, Puerto Rico, Jamaica and North Carolina — trips that, in reflection, helped him see the African diaspora firsthand.Though Mr. Johnson excelled in a variety of sports, including skiing, basketball and soccer, he wanted to be a chef. His mother insisted that, despite the expense, he study at the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y. After graduating, he worked in New York at Tribeca Grill and the Smith, then as a personal chef and later in an executive dining room at Morgan Stanley.In 2011, as a contestant on “Rocco’s Dinner Party,” a Bravo reality TV show hosted by the chef Rocco DiSpirito, Mr. Johnson wooed the judges with a dish of smothered shrimp and grits.The meal caught the eye of Mr. Smalls, a South Carolina native, who said Mr. Johnson reminded him of his father, who would prepare the same Lowcountry dish for special occasions. Mr. Smalls reached out to Mr. Johnson, and they developed a teacher-apprentice relationship. Mr. Johnson accompanied Mr. Smalls on educational trip to Ghana, and that led to the job at the Cecil.Saying the food was amazing, Mr. Ozersky told Mr. Smalls, “It’s a shame you won’t get credit for it.”Mr. Smalls remembered pushing back. “It’s not important that I’m the person that’s cooking the food and most remembered for it. It’s important that it’s remembered,” he said. “If I did something right in selecting a protégé who is going to make that a platform, then I ain’t mad.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS