AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• How foreign is Broadcom?• The markets are worried that free trade has no voice at the White House.• The E.U. formally announced its plan for any Trump tariffs.• Chuck Rosenberg, a former senior official at the Justice Department, is going to Crowell & Moring.The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius, has jurisdiction over the transaction because Broadcom is currently incorporated in Singapore, where the company has been legally headquartered since 2005. But the company is preparing to move its corporate base to the United States, in part to avoid being considered a foreign acquirer.AdvertisementBeyond Broadcom’s legal domicile, though, is it a substantially foreign company? Let’s take a look at a number of factors.AdvertisementSales“China revenues could include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits to a company that is headquartered in South Korea but that manufactures devices in China, which devices are then sold to consumers in Europe and/or the United States.”EmployeesCorporate governanceThe vast majority of Broadcom’s board are American citizens who live in the United States. That includes Jim Diller, its chairman; Henry Samueli, the founder of the original Broadcom; and Ken Hao, the Silver Lake partner who has backed Broadcom for years.Hock Tan, the company’s C.E.O., immigrated to the United States to attend M.I.T. and then Harvard Business School and lives in the San Francisco Bay Area. He became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1990.Broadcom does have one Singaporean director, Check Low, to comply with Singapore’s corporate rules.AdvertisementOwnershipThe two companies share 11 of their top 20 shareholders, including big index fund managers like BlackRock and Vanguard.— Michael de la MercedMore on Mr. Cohn’s decision from Kate Kelly and Maggie Haberman of the NYT, who broke the news yesterday:It leaves Mr. Trump surrounded primarily by advisers with strong protectionist views who advocate the types of aggressive trade measures, like tariffs, that Mr. Trump campaigned on but that Mr. Cohn fought inside the White House. Mr. Cohn was viewed by Republican lawmakers as the steady hand who could prevent Mr. Trump from engaging in activities that could trigger a trade war.The Federal Reserve has helped support the economy when a big event – fears for the survival of the euro, fiscal standoffs in Congress, oil price declines — threatens to dampen growth. But will the Fed have the same leeway to stimulate the economy if rising trade tensions start to weigh on the growth prospects of the United States?AdvertisementMaybe not.The Fed had ample room to keep its policy loose when inflation was dormant for years after the financial crisis. But now that inflation seems to be waking up, the Fed might not have the same flexibility. Indeed, amid the current trade tumult, investors still seem to believe that inflation is moving higher. This can be seen in a closely watched bond market indicator flagged this morning by Lisa Abramowicz of Bloomberg.- Peter EavisFederal Reserve governor Lael Brainard became the latest policymaker to express confidence that inflation would hit the Fed’s target of 2 percent this year.“Mounting tailwinds at a time of full employment and above-trend growth tip the balance of considerations in my view. With greater confidence in achieving the inflation target, continued gradual increases in the federal funds rate are likely to be appropriate.”What are those tailwinds?“The most notable tailwind is the shift in America’s fiscal policy stance from restraint to substantial stimulus in an economy close to full employment.”Ms. Brainard’s comments are notable because she had previously argued vocally for caution in tightening monetary policy.Major stocks indexes in the United States are down a bit. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 are both off just over 0.5 percent. Futures fell more than 1 percent in the hours after the news broke.Despite the muted response, a number of analysts are warning that investors need to prepare for the possibility that more protectionist/populist policies are on the way. Here’s a look at some reactions:Joe Brusuelas, the chief economist at RSM US, wrote:“The resignation of Gary Cohen from his position at the White House will likely have no to little impact on policymaking out of the West Wing or the bureaucracy. His likely replacement be it Peter Navarro or Larry Kudlow will still be subject to the whims of the occupant of the oval office and a prisoner of the internal inconsistencies of the Trump economic agenda: that it could debt finance a $1.5 trillion dollar tax cut (with a $750 billion fudge factor) and then throw an additional $320 billion in kerosene on top of the debt fueled flames without stoking rising inflation and higher interest rates that are almost certain to follow in its wake. No economic advisor, whatever their academic or professional background will be able to liberate the economy from such internal inconsistencies given the whim like policy making apparatus that exists inside a chaotic White House.”Brian Gardner and Michael Michaud, analysts at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, wrote:“Regardless of whether Mr. Cohn’s replacement comes from the mainstream or is an economic nationalist, investors need to realize that President Trump’s populist rhetoric on trade is real and that protectionist trade policies are more likely than not. To date, investors have been assuaged that Mr. Cohn was the “adult in the room” in an unorthodox and chaotic White House and for most economic and regulatory policy that was the case. However, we think trade policy is different and investors need to understand that the assumptions about a liberal and open global trade framework are being shredded and that the sanctions on steel and aluminum may represent a new paradigm regarding global trade.”What does that mean? The analysts said they think the United States is more likely than not to withdraw from Nafta.Charlie McElligott at Nomura Securities wrote:“It still feels that collective investor mentality views this as little-more than a political ploy to galvanize Trump’s core constituency into mid-term elections, a game-theory standoff to draw-out trade concessions from China.”But he adds:“It does “pull forward” risk of the “Bad Trump” scenario which that market had largely “priced-out” into the “now.”AdvertisementTo some, that seemed like good timing.“We don’t generally comment on rumors, but the recent media speculation regarding our sale of Manitowoc stock calls for a response. We state for the record: Any suggestion that we had prior knowledge of the Trump administration’s announcement of new tariffs on steel imports is categorically untrue. We reduced our position in Manitowoc for legitimate investment reasons having nothing to do with that announcement.”The aluminum industry doesn’t want tariffs eitherThe proposed combination is the latest in a series of mergers in the rapidly consolidating seed and agrochemical sector.Advertisement— Chad BrayMr. Rosenberg had a long career in government: twice U.S. attorney, he’s been a longtime senior official at the Justice Department (including as chief of staff to James Comey) and acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Now he is heading to Crowell and Moring as senior counsel in the firm’s white-collar and regulatory-enforcement practice.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Philip Inglima, the chairman of Crowell, said of Mr. Rosenberg in a statement:“ Through his experience operating at the highest levels of the Justice Department, he gained unsurpassed insight into the government’s enforcement priorities and processes.”AdvertisementMore from Cecilia Kang and Alan Rappeport of the NYT:“It is the new paradigm,” said Paul Triolo, head of global technology policy at Eurasia Group, a geopolitical risk consulting company. “That implies technologies with 5G, artificial intelligence, biotech and automation are now considered more sensitive and part of a national innovation base that needs to be protected.”The onetime king of messaging devices has accused Facebook of violating its patents in Facebook Messenger, Instagram and WhatsApp.Litigation over patent infringement is part of BlackBerry chief executive John Chen’s strategy for making money for the company, which has lost market share in the smartphone market it once dominated.Facebook says that it will fight the lawsuit and added, “BlackBerry’s suit sadly reflects the current state of its messaging business.”The tech flyaroundAdvertisementMaria Contreras-Sweet, who was leading the investor group, said that it would “consider acquiring assets that may become available in the event of bankruptcy proceedings.”The Weinstein Company’s response: “The company has been transparent about its dire financial condition.”The deals flyaroundAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementGo to Home Page »