AdvertisementSupported bySmall BusinessBlake Barash had just left his job as a credit analyst at Union Bank in Irvine, Calif., in 2010 when he saw an ad on Craigslist that changed the trajectory of his life.A decade ago, the odds of Mr. Barash having enough customers to earn a good living hand-painting sneakers would have been minuscule, but the enormous reach of social media and a growing desire among consumers for customized products has not only made it possible, but achievable.Consumers generally want more control and choice in what they purchase. “There’s been a big push toward customization in many industries,” Ms. Spaulding said, citing as an example the hugely successful restaurant chain Chipotle, where customers build their own meals. “And when you think about the market for sneakers, there is already a heavy emphasis on choice and individualism.”It has been a perfect storm for Mr. Barash. He says B Street Shoes is now in the top 1 percent of sellers on Etsy (the marketplace would not confirm that, because it does not disclose information about sellers). His store gets more than 140,000 visits a month and is responsible for 60 percent of B Street Shoes’s sales.Mr. Barash spends very little on advertising, about $300 a month for ads on Facebook and Etsy. Instead he has leveraged social media — especially Instagram — to turn his tiny sneaker-painting business into one that is on track to gross $250,000 this year. He now employs two other artists, rents a warehouse in Costa Mesa, Calif., and paints about 90 pairs a month. The shoes are mostly high-end athletic shoes like Nike and Adidas, but also boots and women’s stilettos. The average price per pair is $200.“Most of my clients come through word of mouth and search,” he said. “People find me through friends on Facebook and on Instagram. I’ll post a shot of their shoes on Instagram or Facebook, and they tag their friends under the photo and say, ‘Hey, this is what I was telling you about earlier. I think you would love these.’ I get that kind of thing a lot.”Heather Lynch ordered a pair of custom Vans from B Street Shoes for her wedding this fall in suburban Nashville. She had been looking for flats to wear when she saw a pair of custom Keds on the B Street Shoes Etsy store that had been designed for a wedding. “It’s important to me to have a wedding that’s unique,” she said. “And I thought that was the coolest idea ever.” Ms. Lynch ordered a pair of Vans that incorporated her wedding colors (coral and navy), flowers (Gerber daisies) and a painting of headphones, as music is something that drew Ms. Lynch and her fiancé together.Mr. Ewy, who is based in Ann Arbor, Mich., owns the design agency Rhymes With Navy. “Social media aggregates small pockets of interest; it makes the world flat,” he said. “You can find all the people in the world interested in what you make by putting the correct hashtag on it.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS