Oil and banking billionaire George Kaiser, 74, believes in luck.His Jewish family escaped Nazi Germany “by nip and tuck,” he said, and Kaiser was the first child to be born in America. The way he tells it, he found himself in charge of the Kaiser-Francis Oil Company and BOK Financial Corporation mostly by happenstance — lucky to be born into wealth and to have unwittingly joined a bank board at an opportune time — and today, he ranks 61 on the Forbes 400 list. For Kaiser, America was the land of opportunity, but he is acutely aware that others are not so privileged.Kaiser has signed the Bill Gates Giving Pledge to devote much of his remaining net worth (which Forbes estimates to be $7.9 billion) to charity, but in contrast with Gates’s global giving, Kaiser focuses efforts in his hometown of Tulsa, Okla.Kaiser pours money into Tulsa — rather than a more impoverished third-world country — because he believes his foundation can better identify needs and more easily monitor results in his own community.“The charitable world does not have good accountability,” Kaiser told me during an interview this fall. “There’s not a good single judgment of what success is. In business, you make lots of money, that’s deemed to be the measure of success. But in social service, it’s a lot more subtle. You have anecdotal success that the executive director believes in and wants to convince you of when time comes for you to reinvest, but it’s so much more difficult. Plus the problems are far more intractable and endemic than the problems of the business world.”Accountability, he noted, is the “rationalized reason” he donates locally. But he said “Jewish guilt” likely drives him as well, since a Tulsa businessman sponsored his family’s escape from Nazi Germany.Kaiser’s father, Herman, was a German judge who was disbarred under the Nuremberg Laws. Herman went to work for a successful shoemaker, and stayed in Germany until the end of 1938, after Kristallnacht.The Kaiser family moved to America with sponsorship from a Tulsa oilman named Sam Miller. Herman Kaiser went to work for Miller’s small company, Francis Oil and Gas, Inc., which was then dormant. After the war, Herman began working in pipe trading, even traveling back to Germany to negotiate for steel goods.Kaiser speaks about his own rise to prominence in strictly self-deprecating terms. He rarely speaks to the press and his appearance is more professor than plutocrat. In Tulsa, you could pass him on the street without noticing — and most do. He likes it that way; he said he’s never needed security. On the subjects of charity and inequality, he was verbose. But when asked about his personal life, he crunched the empty plastic cup in front of him, visibly uncomfortable. “Can’t stand the subject,” he said.When Kaiser finished graduate school at Harvard in 1966, he went home to the family oil business, unsure what he wanted to do and uncertain about his future during the Vietnam War. After his father had a heart attack, Kaiser took over the business.In 1980, he joined the board of the National Bank of Tulsa. Eleven years and one massive oil and gas crisis later, Kaiser saw that the bank was in trouble and would likely be purchased by an out-of-state owner, so he bought control.“It was pretty high risk. The world was falling apart at that point,” he said. “The primary motivation was to preserve an institution here.” A more local bank, he believed, would make loans based on borrowers’ reputation and credit, compared to out-of-state banks, which would make impersonal calculations and secure loans with collateral.Kaiser runs his charitable organization much in the way he runs the bank: locally and personally, but with deference to data. His focus is on brain development in children age 0-3, because research shows improvements at a young age yield the best results for society.I spoke to two young mothers attending Union High School, an alternative education program partnering with the Kaiser Foundation. Nataly Ledesma, 17, became pregnant when she was 13, and her sister Linda, 18, became pregnant soon after. The sisters say they grew up without much attention at home, and were awestruck at the parenting lessons they’ve received at school, such as positive discipline and how to read to their children.“I want my child to be someone,” Nataly said. “We have someone to show us that better way instead of trying to figure it out on our own.”If Kaiser could change one structural aspect of the country, he said he’d eliminate the attitude that centralized control is inherently evil. He agrees with the populist concept that people have equal character and judgment, but he said the corollary to that concept — that no one should tell you what to do — has morphed into an encumbering fear of the federal government. He’s fought to increase taxes on Oklahoma oil and gas producers.Of course, Kaiser has his own frustrations with federal policy. For instance, he said some entitlements are too expensive. Social Security and Medicare were created at a time when the elderly were the poorest in society, he said, but the programs have become antiquated, as they now act as transfers from the relatively poorer young people to the relatively more wealthy older generation.These days, he says he splits time evenly between his businesses and charitable foundation. A 70 to 80 hour workweek doesn’t leave time for pleasure, he noted, adding that was the reason he’d peppered our interview with wisecracks. “My relaxation time,” he smiled. He proudly recalled his eighth grade teacher’s grade comments: “Keen and inquisitive mind, but often seeks to disturb the class with irrelevant remarks and capers.”“I still like capers a lot,” he added.This spring, before Bob Dylan won the Nobel prize, the George Kaiser Family Foundation acquired Dylan’s archive. Kaiser liked that Dylan’s music expressed anti-establishment sentiments — the type of work Kaiser has been assembling for years through the foundation’s Woody Guthrie Center in Tulsa. (Guthrie was one of Dylan’s earliest influences.)Kaiser says his foundation will likely finish spending after his death so that his objectives don’t become obsolete. But for now, the foundation continues doing the local work: person by person, program by program. Even as federal administrations change and fads in foundation spending come and go, Kaiser’s program focuses on data to get results.Perhaps before the foundation spends its last dollar, Kaiser’s solutions will have caught on across the country.This blog expands on Nicholas Kristof’s twice-weekly columns, sharing thoughts that shape the writing but don’t always make it into the 800-word text. It’s also the place where readers make their voices heard.Why wait for governments or established charities when you can start an NGO in your basement?FollowAdvertisement