AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching.• Are we witnessing the end of the tech mania?• Amazon has shed more than $50 billion in market value.•Are investors waking up to Tesla’s real problem?• Mark Zuckerberg agreed to testify before Congress.• SoftBank and Saudi Arabia are planning the world’s largest solar energy project.Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into the shares of companies like Facebook, Amazon and Netflix with special abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of the tech rally are being seriously tested.AdvertisementStocks in the best-known tech companies have plunged in recent days. The NYSE FANG+ index, which tracks the share price of 10 companies, including Facebook, Apple and Amazon, has fallen nearly 14 percent from its recent high. Given that the index has soared 50 percent in just the past 12 months, the recent decline could just be the sort of sell-off that punctuates any long-term rally.AdvertisementStill, several large tech companies suddenly face challenges that could undermine their ability to transform whole industries. And as we’ve seen after previous fervors, investors can take a long time to regain their faith.Facebook is down 20 percent from its recent high. Most of the slide came after news reports showing how the company’s data was misused. Investors have to grapple with the possibility that Facebook won’t be sharing as much data as it does, undermining its ability to generate ever-increasing amounts of advertising revenue.Nvidia, a computer chip maker intent on being a leader in automated driving technology, is off 12 percent from its recent high. The company said on Tuesday that it would halt tests of its autonomous driving technology on public roads after an Uber self-driving car hit and killed a pedestrian in Arizona.Tesla is not a tech stock, but it is included in the FANG+ index, and its supporters believe deeply in its power to revolutionize the auto industry. Growing fears about Tesla’s ability to finance its expansion have helped drag its stock down 33 percent from its recent high. Ominously, the price of Tesla’s bonds is also falling, signaling that the company is losing the confidence of creditors.Of course, on their march higher, tech stocks overcame obstacles, like management problems at Uber and the poor performance of Snap’s initial public offering.But the latest problems have raised deeper, broader doubts, and that may keep the uncertainty around longer. Investors have viewed automated driving technology as a huge potential source of growth for some companies. But after the Uber incident in Arizona, those companies may take a more realistic look at what they have to spend to create a technology that is efficient and safe, and conclude that they have to pull out of the race or pare back. Users of social media and regulators may prevent social media companies from sharing so much of their data with advertisers, and that could restrain revenue growth.And if the passion for two or three big tech companies wanes, the cooling may spread.— Peter EavisThe reason?AdvertisementReports that President Trump wants to rein in the e-commerce giant.“Trump has talked about changing Amazon’s tax treatment because he’s worried about mom-and-pop retailers being put out of business.”Mr. Swan added:“Trump’s wealthy friends tell him Amazon is destroying their businesses. His real estate buddies tell him — and he agrees — that Amazon is killing shopping malls and brick-and-mortar retailers.”How concerned should investors be?GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives writes:“While it’s now a hand holding time for Amazon given this new regulatory potential threat, we believe the reality of these worries altering the company’s business model and future tax structure are low and we would be buyers of the name on weakness.”On a day when the stocks on Wall Street are flat, Macy’s was up 3.5 percent, J.C. Penney has gained 5.5 percent, Walmart rose 1.7 percent, Target increased 1.8 percent, and Kohl’s was up 2.4 percent.The electric carmaker’s shares are down 7 percent Wednesday, after plunging 8 percent on Tuesday.But the continued decline in Tesla’s stock — its shares are down more than 20 percent since mid-March — speaks to the bigger concern surrounding Tesla: How it funds itself.Liam Denning of Bloomberg Gadfly writes:“Challenges on the factory floor and the balance sheet are converging. Drawing inexorably closer to a refinancing wall, Tesla needs a real shot of confidence, and capital, to keep its money machine turning over this year.“Given Tuesday’s bond blowout, that almost certainly means tapping the equity market again. Nothing like being a motivated seller to put a floor under a stock price, right?”The fallout from Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal has spread to Twitter.The stock tumbled 12 percent Tuesday after Citron Research’s Andrew Left said he was betting against the social media company because of its vulnerability to regulation around how it handles user data.AdvertisementMr. Begor will start at Equifax on April 16.About Mr. Begor• The 59-year-old is a managing director at the private equity firm Warburg Pincus. He is also a member of the board at the credit-scoring company FICO.• Mr. Begor spent 35 years at General Electric, where his duties included leading the conglomerate’s real-estate investment and energy management units. For nine years, he was president and chief executive of the company’s consumer credit business, which was later spun off as Synchrony Financial.His pay packageEquifax said it would give Mr. Begor stock and options valued at $17 million this year and an annual salary and bonus of up to $4.5 million.The political success of the trade agreement — and its ability to be replicated in other negotiations — is not guaranteed. Many countries have reacted coolly to Washington’s pugilistic approach to trade, viewing the president’s preference to punch first and negotiate later as counter to global interests.AdvertisementCompanies like Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet have delivered some of the best returns to investors in recent years, powered by the achievements and the promise of social media and artificial intelligence.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nvidia has no choice but to take steps in the context of the fear, uncertainty and outrage likely to be stimulated by a robot car killing a human being. This is precisely the type of event that is capable of slaying a nascent industry in the crib.AdvertisementThe tech flyaroundAdvertisementThe $200 billion solar power project would be the largest in the world and could help Saudi Arabia lessen its dependence on oil.Deals flyaroundAdvertisementBut the response has not been universal, as publishers weigh lost profits against reputational risks in an industry dominated by women.AdvertisementAn earlier version of this article misstated the amount of a bonus at the center of a legal battle between Lloyds Banking Group and Eric Daniels, the former chief executive. It was $2.1 million, not $2.1 billion.Go to Home Page »