Movies-shovies, culture-shmulture and Desi youth pastimes.It’s meant to be a powerful scene, mortals named after a deity making the fated pilgrimage, but instead of being moved, you are surprised at their fervor. Or was it just me? “Murabba” was based on a silly idea: Why dedicate a film meant to capture a special occasion to celebrate someone who spends his every waking moment being celebrated? If it isn’t unfair enough that celebrations of Indian cinema have turned out to be all about Bollywood, they end up, naturally, as being all about Mr. Bachchan.True, Mr. Bachchan means a number of things to Indians. He symbolizes the anger and frustrations of an entire generation. He embodies the larger-than-life quality of Bollywood. He epitomizes the heroism of the Hindi film hero. He has handled his fame gracefully. For all of this, we have celebrated him since he rose to stardom in the 1970s.The problem is that the man stopped being awesome a really long time ago, but it hasn’t affected the Idea of Bachchan. Like all true devotees, we Indians don’t want to question the worthiness of the one chosen to be our god. It has almost become a part of Indian culture to revere Mr. Bachchan. Indeed the fact that we refuse to identify a cultural icon worthy enough to succeed Mr. Bachchan says as much about us as it does about him.In a contest hosted by Big CBS last year, he was voted the nation’s prime icon, beating the composer A.R. Rahman, the actor Aamir Khan, the cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and Narendra Modi, Gujarat’s chief minister — in that order.Assuming that young people, the English-language channel’s target group, made up a sizable number of the voters, one wonders what precise appeal Mr. Bachchan holds for a generation that came of age after the best years of his career were long over. What makes him score over beloved youth icons like Mr. Khan or Mr. Tendulkar since, unlike that of the other contenders, a quick look at Mr. Bachchan’s recent career, and life as public figure, reveals very little that is remarkable?In the past decade or so, he has also made a new career out of brand endorsement. Among the products that he has tried to sell Indians are milk, jewelry, chocolate, banking services, cellphones, cold cream, cars, insurance, pens, paint, real estate, cement, dress material, diet supplements, instant noodles and Gujarat tourism.It is hard to trust his judgment because of the sheer number and variety of things he is happy to recommend to us, wearing what seems like the same suit and the same expression of ultimate satisfaction. It’s certainly not his personality as brand ambassador that makes him India’s prime icon.From lame aphorisms (“T 1108 – The world is made up of all kinds .. some ‘made up’ some ‘kind’.”) to shallow philosophy (“There will be inequality and distinct distinction. The lesser shall always be in the awe inspiring, more. The bourgeoisie will ever find complexity in the elite and the class. That shall ever remain a constant, for some will ‘have,’ and most ‘have not’.”), his online personality is an extension of his public self, which is marked by labored politeness and platitudes.There is one job, however, at which Mr. Bachchan shines, and that’s hosting a television game show. Since he joined “Kaun Banega Crorepati,” the Indian version of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,” in 2000, he has come to define, and prove indispensable to the quiz show that offers ordinary Indians a chance to win 50 million rupees ($911,000). A perfect combination of gentleness and wit, Mr. Bachchan displays every quality on air that television hosts aspire to, his understanding of the contestants’ hopes and fears appearing to be only sharper with every year.No matter how much we want it to be true, Mr. Bachchan isn’t a timeless icon. He might be a television icon, and that is what he should be celebrated for.India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16.The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977.FollowAdvertisement