AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Trump puts an end to Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm.• Can Solomon get Goldman playing a new tune?• Apple agrees to buy Texture.• Short Netflix• Dropbox unveils its I.P.O. target.President Trump on Monday blocked Broadcom’s bid for the chip maker Qualcomm, citing national security concerns.In a presidential order, Mr. Trump said “there is credible evidence” that led him to believe Singapore-based Broadcom’s control of Qualcomm, which is based in San Diego, “might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States.”AdvertisementAdvertisementFrom President Trump’s order:(a) There is credible evidence that leads me to believe that Broadcom Limited, a limited company organized under the laws of Singapore (Broadcom), along with its partners, subsidiaries, or affiliates, including Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation, and Broadcom Cayman L.P., a Cayman Islands limited partnership, and their partners, subsidiaries, or affiliates (together, the Purchaser), through exercising control of Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm), a Delaware corporation, might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; andFurther down(e) The Purchaser and Qualcomm shall immediately and permanently abandon the proposed takeover. Immediately upon completion of all steps necessary to terminate the proposed takeover of Qualcomm, the Purchaser and Qualcomm shall certify in writing to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) that such termination has been effected in accordance with this order and that all steps necessary to fully and permanently abandon the proposed takeover of Qualcomm have been completed.Most C.E.O.s have to go to work each day and grind out better margins in highly competitive businesses that taxpayers won’t bail out if they blow up.This is now the fate that awaits the next C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs.Investors still seem to doubt Goldman’s desire to adapt to a much more ordinary future. This is revealed in a comparison of Goldman and its rival, Morgan Stanley.AdvertisementGoldman’s return on shareholder equity, a closely watched metric that quantifies the profits generated on shareholders’ money, has been higher than that of Morgan Stanley in recent years. But investors seem just as enthusiastic about the future of Morgan Stanley. Its stock trades at the same multiple to shareholders equity as Goldman’s. Why? Morgan Stanley has arguably done more than Goldman to diversify away from trading to businesses, like wealth management, that are more stable.— Peter EavisThe Wall Street firm said Mr. Solomon would serve as its sole president and chief operating officer, setting him up as the potential successor to Lloyd C. Blankfein, the investment bank’s longtime chief executive.ContextBut, Mr. Schwartz, who previously served as the bank’s chief financial officer and global co-head of the securities division, has decided to retire in April, Goldman said on Monday.Mr. Solomon joined Goldman Sachs in 1999 and previously served as co-head of its investment banking division.— Chad BrayCritic’s cornerCase in point:• Trading accounted for 53 percent of Goldman’s revenue in 2012.• It made just over a third of the firm’s revenue last year.Advertisement“Meanwhile, takings from merger advisory and stock-and-bond underwriting – Solomon’s world – increased by half over the past six years. So positioning him as likely heir would look like a way of rewarding past success.”Goldman’s reputation for advising companies in mergers and acquisitions is well earned. Most years, it tops the rankings of advisers by deal volume known as the league tables.So it was a bit surprising to see Goldman currently ranked fifth on both the global and the United States league tables. Here’s a look:GlobalMorgan Stanley: $228.88 billionJPMorgan: $198.82 billionBank of America Merrill Lynch: $138.76 billionLazard: $134.39 billionGoldman Sachs: $131.56 billionUnited StatesMorgan Stanley: $132.36 billionLazard: $119.69 billionJPMorgan: $114.37 billionCenterview: $112.75 billionGoldman Sachs: $102.54 billionTwo points to note: 1) It is still early in the year and one big deal can reshuffle the rankings; 2) The value of transactions Goldman has advised on this year is up 31 percent from the same period a year ago.The job has not been formally offered to Mr. Kudlow, but the CNBC television commentator, who has informally advised President Trump on economic issues, is likely to interview him in the coming days.ContextFrom the NYT’s Maggie Haberman and Jim Tankersley:Heading into the weekend, the top contender to replace Mr. Cohn was Christopher Liddell, who is a special assistant to the president working with the Office of American Innovation on a team led by Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser. Mr. Liddell’s previous experience as a chief financial officer for Microsoft had been seen as a selling point.On Sunday, Mr. Trump again began discussing Mr. Kudlow as an option, the people close to the president said.AdvertisementThe big thought: The Dropbox offering — along with that of Spotify — could show how interested Wall Street investors are in the latest batch of Silicon Valley “unicorns,” or privately held companies worth at least $1 billion.The market for initial public offerings is on a tear, and, going by Dropbox’s latest financial filing, it may be getting a little overheated.Dropbox, a company that stores files on remote computers for consumers and businesses, on Monday said it aims to price its shares at between $16 and $18.The midpoint of those two prices would value Dropbox at around $6.8 billion, excluding some shares that may be awarded to executives in the future.That’s a lot, though about 30 percent below the $10 billion valuation it received after its fundraising round in 2014.At $6.8 billion, Dropbox would be trading at just over six times the $1.1 billion in sales it had for 2017. Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index trade at 2.3 times sales. Dropbox would also have a higher valuation than Box, another file storage company, whose market value is 5.6 times the revenue it generated in its last fiscal year, which ended in January.Investors may, however, decide that Dropbox’s higher valuation is not justified. True, its sales grew at an impressive 31 percent last year, but that is not materially faster than the 27 percent Box achieved in its latest fiscal year. (Revenue grew 6.3 percent at companies in the S.&P. 500, according to FactSet.)AdvertisementNeither company made a profit in their most recent fiscal year. Both are generating positive cash flows, though. And at $330 million last year, Dropbox’s cash flows were more than five times those of Box’s $62 million. If Dropbox went public at the $6.8 billion implied in Monday’s filing, it would trade at 21 times its 2017 cash flows. That is pricey, but that is less than half of Box’s cash flow multiple.— Peter EavisOur columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The digital magazine app offers users a $10 a month subscription to read more than 200 magazines, including People, the New Yorker, Vanity Fair, and Vogue.Apple has set a goal of increasing total revenue from services to more than $40 billion by 2020. The company generated nearly $30 billion in services revenue in its fiscal year ended in September.Shares of the video streaming company are down 3.4 percent Monday to about $320 after the short seller Andrew Left of Citron Research tweeted that he thinks the stock can be ”shorted back to $300.”Shares of Netflix close Friday at $331.44, up nearly 14 percent for March.From the outside, the Saudi businessmen (including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal) who were corralled into Riyadh’s Ritz-Carlton — in what Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman described as an anticorruption campaign — seemed to be in a gilded cage.More from Ben Hubbard, David Kirkpatrick, Kate Kelly and Mark Mazzetti of the NYT:One former detainee, forced to wear a tracking device, has sunk into depression as his business collapses. “We signed away everything,” a relative of his said. “Even the house I am in, I am not sure if it is still mine.”The net effect: Many outside investors, whom Saudi officials have hoped to woo to help transform the kingdom’s economy, are now rattled by what they say was a lack of transparency.AdvertisementOf note: The roles of the accounting company PWC and the law firm Clifford Chance in the Saudi government’s takeover of MBC, a broadcaster.Students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School took out a full-page ad in the NYT over the weekend to thank businesses “who acted on their consciences and took positive steps for change” after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla. Among the companies thanked: BlackRock, Bumble, Delta, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Gucci, Kroger, REI and Walmart.The students are looking for GoFundMe donations for their March For Our Lives on March 24 in Washington.AdvertisementAnd then there was Bill Gurley of the investment firm Benchmark. According to the article:As Gurley pondered his options, he received an email that kicked him in the gut. It was from Katrina Lake, C.E.O. of the apparel-shopping service Stitch Fix, one of Benchmark’s other highly successful portfolio companies. Lake lambasted Gurley for not doing enough to fix Uber. She accused him of shirking his responsibility to make Silicon Valley a better place.AdvertisementThe tech flyaroundWorkers’ advocates are pushing a dozen states and the District of Columbia to change laws allowing restaurants to pay less than the minimum wage, which makes earning tips a necessity.The misconduct flyaround“I feel like Huck Finn listening to his own eulogy.”AdvertisementAdvertisementGo to Home Page »