GRAY--Barbara B. Barbara B. Gray, who resided at the Princeton Windrows retirement home in Princeton, NJ died on December 21, 2014 of heart failure. Mrs. Gray came from a family of German-Irish decent who arrived in America in the early 1700&apos;s, many
                                        participating in the American Revolution. Prominent among them was Charles Carroll of Maryland, a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Mrs. Gray was born in Salt Lake City on October 26, 1918 to Denise Karrick
                                        Bintz and Charles Carroll Bintz. She grew up in Salt Lake City where she attended Roland Hall and East High School and later graduating from Stanford University. Among her proudest moments were a startling 93 on
                                        a physics exam at Roland Hall, numerous equestrian firsts in the Salt Lake City Horse Show, most notably for Ladies Jumping, and her BA from Stanford where she was a member of the Pi Phi sorority. A devoted wife
                                        of 72 years, Mrs. Gray married Sherman Gray in October 1942. The son of Prentiss Nathaniel Gray and Laura Sherman, his family also includes a signer of the Declaration of Independence, Roger Sherman of Connecticut.
                                        Sherm received his BA from Harvard where he led the crew team to win the Grand Challenge Cup at Henley, England in 1939. After graduation, he joined the US Navy and served as a naval aviator flying a PBY aircraft
                                        in defense of the Aleutians Islands while Bobbie remained in Salt Lake. After the war the pair moved to New York where he joined Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. They began their several moves to and from Europe
                                        while Sherman worked for Schroder&apos;s Bank and later Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. When Sherm was assigned abroad, Mrs. Gray moved the entire family, first to Switzerland, then France, then on to London
                                        before returning finally to the U.S. where she became a founding member of the Junior League of Long Island. The frequent moves involved the conversion of some 15 residences into gracious homes for her family and
                                        provided her with many spectacular recipes which she cooked with aplomb. Mrs. Gray is predeceased by her first daughter, Pamela Carroll Gray, of Newport Beach, CA, the late wife of Lowell Martindale. She is survived
                                        by her husband of 72 years, Sherman; her second daughter, Elizabeth Gray Lilleston and husband Richard D. Lilleston of Navesink, NJ; and her son, Prentiss Sherman Gray and wife Leslie G. Steinberg of Morristown,
                                        NJ; six grandchildren and their spouses: Jessica Carroll Chu, Pamela Sherman Lilleston and James Noe; Amanda January Lilleston and Justin Dimmel; Matthew Putnam Gray, Zachary Sherman Gray, and Nathaniel Prentiss
                                        Gray. And, last but not least, the newest joy in her life, a great-grandson, Kai Sherman Noe. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to Stanford University. 1/3