AdvertisementSupported byGreece, long Europe’s economic problem child, is trying to prove that it has made progress in its recovery efforts by announcing plans to sell debt for the first time in years.If investor interest is strong, it would be a landmark moment, not only for Greece but also for the eurozone, the 19 countries that use the euro. If Greece struggles to find buyers, however, the debt sale could represent yet another blow for a country that has only recently started to see signs of a turnaround after nearly veering out of the currency union just two summers ago.Dimitri B. Papadimitriou, the economy minister, said his country was “getting out of a rut,” adding: “There’s an opportunity for Greece to become a normal country.”In a statement issued later in the day, the office of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras described the move as “a significant step” for Greece that would help it “gain sustainable and stable access to the international markets.” While the government has not explicitly said what the proceeds from the sale will be used for, the bulk of the sale is expected to be used to roll over existing debt.The upcoming offering of five-year bonds — Greece has previously issued Treasury bills — does not mean that the country is out of the woods. It is just the first of several steps that Athens must take to test whether it can raise money in international markets to support its economy and government operations when the latest bailout, worth €86 billion, expires in August 2018.European authorities have agreed to disburse $8.4 billion in fresh funds to Greece, allowing the country to keep paying its bills in the coming months.The sale is likely to be dominated by institutional investors, eager to snap up bonds that provide a hefty return (albeit in return for considerable risk), especially when compared to lower-yielding assets elsewhere in Europe.The Greek economy is still reeling from years of severe budget tightening, pension cuts, tax increases and other austerity actions required under the bailout programs. To rebuild its finances, the Greek government will need to maintain those measures even after the current rescue expires next year.Since then, Mr. Tsipras seems to have pivoted toward restoring political and economic stability, and the bond offering represents another step on that road. He now appears bent on burnishing his legacy by making the country financially self-sufficient again during his tenure.Talk in Athens that another surprise election might be held before his term expires in 2019 has also faded away.The calmer climate has attracted the attention of investors, especially in the United States, where companies and financial firms appear to be intensifying their search for deals as the Greek economy shows signs of stabilizing.Mr. Papadimitriou, the economy minister, said that on a recent trip to New York and Washington, more than 400 American investors had told him that they saw the potential to do business in Greece in sectors such as banking, maritime ports, pharmaceuticals, tobacco and tourism.During the trip, Mr. Papadimitriou added, “people were already asking me when Greece would come back to the market.”The country still faces deep economic fissures, however. And success in the financial markets would hardly settle a debate over whether the nascent recovery has been worth the pain.Years of budget squeezing have taken a toll. While the economy appears to be stabilizing, expanding 0.4 percent on an annualized basis in the first quarter, growth would have to surge by much more than that to make up for a near 25 percent contraction since the crisis broke out.For regular Greeks battered by years of privation and hardship, however, the government’s efforts to appeal to investors have little meaning.Stavroula Vardaki, 68, looked perplexed at the mention of the government’s prospective debt sale. “Who cares if they sell bonds, what difference does it make?” she wondered. “My pension’s been cut six times already. I barely have enough to put something aside for my grandchildren.“How did they get us into this mess?” she asked.Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS