AdvertisementSupported byLettersA common theme was clear as readers offered more than 1,200 alternatives to the Democrats’ new slogan, “A Better Deal”: The party needs to offer a positive, inclusive, empathetic message. Variations of “We the People” and “The Real Deal” were especially popular.We’ve got to identify with the voters and show empathy. And we’ve got to shake off the label “elitist.” We, too, work, pay our bills, worship, love our families and respect the Constitution. The slogan is upbeat and rings true to our history of standing up for labor, economic growth, health care, public schools and other social goods.“For the People”Theodore Roosevelt stood for the “Square Deal,” his distant cousin Franklin pledged to the American people that they would get a “New Deal,” and his successor, Harry S. Truman, believed in a “Fair Deal.” “A Better Deal” clearly wilts alongside its three powerful predecessors.A strong, simple and meaningful phrase such as “For the People” could work well for the Democratic Party in these times of economic inequality.TED PERLE, LAKE FOREST, CALIF.The writer is a member of the executive board of the California Democratic Party.“The Real Deal”“A Better Deal” rests on a case of one-upmanship: What we offer doesn’t have to be good, just better. That’s dancing to someone else’s tune.“The Real Deal” reminds voters that Democrats are serious about governance; it isn’t all hyperbole and empty rhetoric. It suggests that Democrats know how to deliver — on health care, job growth, banking protections, equality under the law. It showcases reality and the task of finding real solutions to America’s problems. The president will continue to whine about “fake news,” while doing his best to gaslight the nation. This leaves Democrats with the great opportunity to define themselves as the enemies of unreality: We are … “the real deal.”The writer is the author of “Liking Ike: Eisenhower, Advertising, and the Rise of Celebrity Politics.”“Make America America Again”This slogan addresses the fact that we have gotten away from the values that make America great — inclusiveness, the rule of law, opportunity for everyone, innovation, our can-do attitude, our work ethic and our faith in democracy. The Democrats would do well to inspire us to embrace these values again, and they could show how every program they propose would further these values.“It’s My Party, and I’ll Cry if I Want To”I think that this slogan sums up my general frustration with the Democrats (with apologies to Lesley Gore).CARLA RECZEK, OAK PARK, MICH.“Make America Work Again!”I like it because it can refer to jobs and the economy — and is also a commentary on the Republican Party’s inability to get anything done. It is also a play on President Trump’s slogan and can imply that he has not been successful in achieving his goals.NANCY T. ROCKWELL, BROOKLYN“Stop the Madness”As much as I love my state’s senior senator, Chuck Schumer, “A Better Deal” just doesn’t do it for me. Democrats, the last nine months have been rough. But stop trying so hard. Speak from the heart, and say what we are all thinking. Stop this reality show. The kids have thrown their party, but now the parents must come home before the house burns down. Stop the madness.MARK KAPLOWITZ, ALBANY“The Party of Yes”For the entire Obama presidency, the Republicans reveled in being the Party of No. Now that they are the governing party, they continue to be purely negative, accomplishing nothing, excluding nearly everyone. Their only core belief is that government is not the answer, another negative, and to mindlessly cut taxes simply to “starve the beast.” They do not have a single “yes” idea, as their failure on health care vividly displayed. Building on the Obama slogan, Yes We Can, the Democrats need to become the Party of Yes with constructive, positive answers to address the concerns of those who have been driven out, left out and left behind.CLAUDE SHOSTAL, NEW YORK“You Deserve Better”This slogan points out that the public certainly deserves better political representation than it is getting … but it also requires the Democrats to admit that they need to do better as well. It is an admission that they somehow managed to miss the anger and anxiety of a large swath of America and, in the process, disaffected millions to the degree that many were willing to look to Donald Trump as an acceptable alternative.MARILYN J. BELLOCK, NEW YORK“Make America Great Again”How about if the Democrats turn the tables on President Trump and make their new slogan “Make America Great Again.” Wait, what?Here’s why it’s genius: 1) It gives Democrats a golden opportunity to highlight Mr. Trump’s broken promises and present their better solutions. 2) It will generate plenty of free media exposure. 3) It co-opts Trump followers into being unwitting Democratic proponents. 4) Bonus: It will make Trump supporters’ heads explode. In guerrilla warfare circles, this is known as a false flag attack.“Make Reading the Newspaper Relaxing Again”“We’re By Your Side”This can be easily worked into broader messages. For example: “When you need help with your medical bills, we’re by your side. When you’re worrying whether your child can afford to go to college, we’re by your side. And when you’re discriminated against for any reason, we’re by you side.” Not government on your back. Government by your side. The Democrats need a message that shows they care. And they need to drop their “we know better” (even if it is true) attitude.JEFF LOWELL, NEW YORK“For the Many, Not the Few”I was going to suggest a slogan along the lines of the British Labour Party’s widely popular “For the Many, Not the Few,” but that would require that the Democrats actually embrace that ethos.“The New American Dream”The basic middle-class promise — if you work hard, you can have a decent home, a good job, affordable health care, quality education for your kids and a secure retirement — has been steadily eroding for decades. Democrats need to embrace a set of policies to bring back these five core elements for anyone willing to work hard — not by bringing back the jobs of yesterday but by growing the jobs of tomorrow and extending them to more and more people: millennials, minorities, women and, yes, white working-class men. The American dream still resonates, but in the 21st century it’s different. It’s new.PETER CUNNINGHAM, CHICAGO“BetterTogether”BetterTogether strikes at the heart of the deep divisions in our country that have inhibited our ability to govern our country effectively, and makes the point that we can do better only if we unite and do it together. This is what the Democratic Party must convey in order to succeed.“Draw the Circle Wide”I can’t claim it as mine. It’s part of a hymn: “Draw the circle, draw the circle wide. No one stands alone, we’ll stand side by side.” I believe it to be a simple statement of what our national attitude and priorities should be, and what it will take to make this country work for everybody.“Justice, Compassion and Jobs!”It speaks to the core values and, in the end, it’s the economy, stupid!WYNN SCHWARTZ, BOSTON“Restore Our Dignity!”President Trump has trampled the dignity of the presidency, embarrassed the United States internationally and violated basic human decency by demeaning women, immigrants and minorities. That’s why I suggest “Restore Our Dignity!” as a slogan for the Democrats. Making America truly great again requires reaffirming and protecting the basic human dignity of all people, a core American value.“An America That Works”My slogan works on a couple of levels — putting Americans back to work (as President Trump has pledged but so far has failed to do), and making government work for all people.And unlike “A Better Deal,” with its too-cute-by-half Trump reference, my slogan ignores the current administration entirely, and also eschews the wishy-washiness of “better.” We’re not trying to make a good country better. We’re trying to take a broken country and make it work.JAKE ALRICH, NEW YORK“Integrity. Opportunity. Prosperity.”The first word reminds us how important, and how currently lacking, is the element of trust in our elected officials.The second word calls to mind the very American ideals of social mobility and the possibility of achieving a better future.The final word underscores the goal of a higher standard of living and economic growth.In the end, most Americans aren’t expecting to build a Utopian paradise. What most of us want is a level playing field and a shot at greatness.“Together, Wherever We Go!”Because it is inclusive as well as uplifting, I like the title of the song that Ethel Merman belted out in “Gypsy.” It refers to our past, as it looks to the future.MICHELLE ROBINSON GERSTEN, MIAMI“We’re Listening Now”To this end, the Democrats could establish “listening posts” — online sites where people could send their ideas and concerns, and receive actual replies rather than form letters. They could also conduct town hall-style meetings where representatives are there only to listen. Then the party should convene to read and discuss all the things their constituents have written and said, and devise a plan that meets the needs and desires of the citizens.ALISON DIDIER, ST. PAUL“By the People and For the People”No party is perfect. Far from it. But in recent times it has become overwhelmingly apparent that one party represents lobbyist groups and the wealthy. The other party represents what is in the best interests of all people and the environment. The Democratic Party would do well to remind Americans (and itself) of this mission. Therefore, “By the People and For the People” should be its slogan.STEVEN SEIGEL, NEW MILFORD, N.J.“America’s Party”What the Democrats need more than a slogan is a strategy. I say this as someone who has spent a career writing slogans. I did some thinking about a new branding strategy last spring and arrived at nearly the same place as Thomas J. Lee, who in his July 31 to the editor suggested “Truth, Justice and the American Way.” I’d go big, stealing all the thunder the Republicans have abandoned. The Democrats are “America’s Party.”“We are on your side.”But then they’d have to prove it.“Hope and Change”If a slogan is worth anything, it should endure longer than just the next election. Barack Obama’s “Hope and Change” says it all and could become the mantra for all future political parties.No slogan.It’s better because people want action, not slogans.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS