Michael Diekmann, the chief executive and chairman of Allianz’s management board, and Clement B. Booth plan to leave the board in the coming months, the company said.Mr. Booth will leave at the end of the year and Mr. Diekmann will depart after the company’s annual meeting in May.The insurer requires its executives to step down from the management board when they turn 60, and Mr. Diekmann and Mr. Booth asked the company not to extend the limit, Allianz said. Mr. Diekmann is 59 and Mr. Booth turned 60 this year.Mr. Diekmann has been asked to remain available to stand for election to its supervisory board – the German equivalent of a board of directors – at its 2017 annual meeting, Dr. Perlet said.Dr. Perlet will turn 70 in 2017 and is expected to leave the supervisory board at that time.Oliver Bäte, 49, will succeed Mr. Diekmann as chief executive in May and is under contract until Sept. 30, 2019. He will continue to be responsible for the insurer’s global property and casualty business until next year’s annual meeting.Gary C. Bhojwani, 46, the head of Allianz’s insurance business in the United States, is expected to leave Allianz’s management board at the end of the year, after requesting that he be allowed to step down.Sergio Balbinot, 56, will join the company’s management board in January, where he will be responsible for the insurance business in Western and Southern Europe.Alex Theis will join the company’s management board next year and will oversee its global industrial insurance business, its credit insurance and its insurance business in Ireland and Britain. He will assume Mr. Bäte’s responsibility for global property and casualty business in May.The shake-up at Allianz is the latest in the board rooms of European financial companies in recent months.And this year, Norman Blackwell took over as chairman of the Lloyds Banking Group from Winfried Bischoff, a former Citigroup chairman.By LANDON THOMAS JR.Pimco is still using an investing strategy backed by its departed co-founder.Advertisement