AdvertisementSupported byYet in his Wall Street provenance, Mr. Weiss, President Obama’s nominee to be under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, has given the left an unlikely rallying cry to press for a more aggressively liberal economic policy agenda.It is not Mr. Weiss’s politics that are in question. It is his résumé.“I have voted for people who have extensive Wall Street experience,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts. She is rallying the opposition to Mr. Weiss, the head of investment banking at Lazard, a storied but relatively small firm. But, she said, “the Antonio Weiss nomination is a mistake, and that’s why I’m fighting back.”The formal confirmation process, while not likely to get underway until after the new Congress convenes next year, has become an unexpected proxy war between the liberal and moderate wings of the Democratic Party. Its outcome will say a lot about the party’s direction as it regroups for the 2016 presidential campaign, in which Hillary Clinton will be under pressure to discard some of her ties to Wall Street.Mr. Weiss’s assets are worth between $54 million and $203 million, according to his financial disclosure. In addition to his Manhattan apartment, he owns a 200-year-old, eight-bedroom farmhouse in Connecticut and property in the Dominican Republic valued at up to $1 million.“The American people are profoundly disappointed with the fraud they read about every day coming from Wall Street,” said Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont who is considering running for president as a Democrat to encourage the party to move to the left. “They are disgusted that instead of investing in the American economy, they are busy trying to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, and the American people want people in the Treasury Department who are prepared to hold Wall Street accountable.”Supporters of Mr. Weiss, both inside and outside the Obama administration, see the brewing fight as no less consequential. Wall Street executives lend the Treasury Department real-world expertise to understand how policy proposals might be gamed by the banks and investment houses they are aimed at.If the Elizabeth Warren wing of the party can bring Mr. Weiss down, they say, prominent financiers may no longer play a significant role in Democratic administrations, which have turned to them since the Clinton years to bolster their business bona fides.“If the rules post-financial crisis were that the one place you shouldn’t go for help is the private sector, particularly the financial sector, that would be a pretty dangerous thing,” a senior Treasury official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Gene B. Sperling, a former senior economic policy maker in the Obama and Clinton White Houses, said: “He has a good progressive heart. He has hardheaded practical business experience.”Mr. Weiss declined to comment for this article, citing his pending confirmation hearings.No deal is causing more trouble for him than Burger King’s “inversion” merger with Tim Hortons, which came just as the Treasury was proposing new rules to stop American companies from reincorporating as foreign entities not subject to United States taxes. Lazard itself gave up its United States citizenship in 2005 to reincorporate in Bermuda, using a loophole that the Bush administration later closed to deter copycats.“On the policy on whether or not companies should move overseas to avoid U.S. taxation when there’s not a core business reason for the move, that’s something we think is wrong,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in an interview. “It’s something he thinks is wrong.”Mr. Weiss’s defenders in the administration say the Burger King deal was not really an inversion, in which a large American company adopts a foreign headquarters in name only. But it still sticks in Democratic craws. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, cited his work on such deals when he announced his opposition to Mr. Weiss’s confirmation.Beyond Lazard, there is Mr. Weiss himself. To defenders like Ms. Tanden, his years in Europe made him acutely aware of the perils of wage stagnation and the obstacles to upward mobility. He grew up in New York, in a distinctly middle-class family. Both of his parents were teachers. He attended Yale and Harvard Business School, while also apprenticing under George Plimpton, the editor of The Paris Review.Where supporters see brio, detractors see a fat cat. Last week, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president Richard L. Trumka sent a letter to Lazard’s compensation committee chairman, Philip A. Laskawy, via the company’s Bermuda affiliate, questioning his decision to speed the vesting of equity income to ease Mr. Weiss’s transition to public service. If he is confirmed as the under secretary, Mr. Weiss will receive $6 million to $30 million in stock that would normally accrue to him in 2017 and $3 million in interest income, according to the Project on Government Oversight.But beyond that is the Warren wing’s belief that Democrats must realign their economic policies with the interests of working-class voters, particularly white men without college degrees, who have flocked to the Republican Party in recent years. The Democrats’ attention should be focused on raising the minimum wage, funding infrastructure investments financed by higher taxes on the rich and, Ms. Warren adds, a new push to divide the big banks from their nonbanking activities.“We have got to be willing to make the government work for America’s families,” Ms. Warren said. “That’s the start of everything we do.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS