AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross Sorkin• Ken Chenault is moving to venture capital.• JPMorgan has (and hasn’t) clarified its succession plans.• What should we expect in tonight’s State of the Union speech?Health care stocks fell on news that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan are partnering to form a venture to lower the health care costs of their employees.AdvertisementBut beyond that threat, there are some big questions looming over the initiative.1) What is it?The venture will be an independent company that “is free from profit-making incentives and constraints.” That sounds liberating, and there is no reason to think it won’t be, but such visionary language would pack a bigger punch if it was accompanied by hard cash. The release did not give details about the initial investment in the venture.Advertisement2) How big will it really be?3) Do these companies bring valuable expertise to providing health care at a lower cost?It’s not clear how much more expertise Amazon, Berkshire and JPMorgan have than companies that have been operating in health care for decades. Amazon could have gotten into pharmacy services years ago, if it had wanted, which means it might have seen complexities and risks that don’t exist in other sectors. Berkshire brings a strong insurance specialization, but not in providing health insurance directly to the consumer. What is more, Berkshire’s point man in the joint health care effort will be Todd Combs, an investor who does not come from the insurance operations of the company.4) If the high cost of health care is the main problem, what can this venture do to cut costs?— Peter EavisThat’s how Warren Buffett referred to the nation’s “ballooning costs of health care” Tuesday.The three companies provided few details about the new entity, other than saying it would initially focus on technology to provide simplified, high-quality health care for their employees and their families, and at a reasonable cost. They said the initiative, which is in the early planning stages, would be a long-term effort “free from profit-making incentives and constraints.”AdvertisementIn fact, Mr. Buffett use of the tapeworm metaphor to describe drags on the economy dates back more than three-and-a-half decades at least.Mr. Buffett wrote in his 1981 shareholder letter: “Inflation acts as a gigantic corporate tapeworm.”Then in his 2013 letter to Berkshire shareholders, he wrote: “Citizens and public officials typically under-appreciated the gigantic financial tapeworm that was born when promises were made that conflicted with a willingness to fund them.”The smooth glide higher for U.S. stock markets may be hitting a bumpier stretch.Volatility, as measured by the widely followed C.B.O.E. Volatility Index, or VIX, jumped nearly 30 percent in recent days as investors paused to consider the ongoing sell-off in the United States dollar and rising yields on United States government debt.The S.&P. 500 stock index dropped roughly 0.7 percent early Tuesday and could notch its second consecutive decline, something that hasn’t happened since mid-December.Low interest rates have been a key ingredient in the almost relentless rise in U.S. equity markets. But with the yield on the benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury now above 2.70 percent, its highest level in four years, that backdrop could be changing.— Matt PhillipsDespite being inundated by post-American Express job offers, Ken Chenault has chosen an interesting path: becoming chairman and managing partner of General Catalyst Partners, which has invested in Airbnb, Warby Parker and Stripe, among others.AdvertisementHere’s what he told Andrew:“Given their age and the scale and size and impact that they can have on our society, unless they make a step up, we are going to have some serious problems,” Mr. Chenault said. “And we do have serious problems.”“Companies are starting to realize that they are growing up, and in growing up, they have to assume some broader responsibilities,” he added. “Companies are at different stages, from a self awareness standpoint, in accepting that reality.”Mr. Och’s statement:“Rob is a world-class executive who will be a great asset to Oz as we continue our evolution as a firm. His distinguished career of over 30 years leading global financial institutions and asset management businesses brings unique experience that will benefit Oz significantly.”And a statement by Mr. Levin, who had weighed quitting — but was identified in today’s statement as still being Och-Ziff’s co-chief investment officer:“Oz is a tremendous firm with a talented and creative team that works each day to identify and execute on the most compelling investment opportunities around the world. I am excited about the future and look forward to welcoming Rob.”— Michael J. de la Merced“The board and Dimon both believe that under all timing scenarios, whether today or in the future, the company has several highly capable successors in place,” JPMorgan said in its statement. But the firm has had trouble holding onto potential successors over the years.AdvertisementCritics’ cornerOur columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementHere’s what Ajit Pai of the F.C.C. said:“Any federal effort to construct a nationalized 5G network would be a costly and counterproductive distraction from the policies we need to help the United States win the 5G future.”It lays bare the differences between two camps in the administration that have been present since Mr. Trump’s inauguration: economic nationalists and China hawks.Among those officials aggressively pushing the 5G network are two China hard-liners: Gen. Robert S. Spalding II, the senior director for strategic planning at the National Security Council, and Peter Navarro, the director of the White House national trade council.Elsewhere in techAdvertisementThe recapMr. Weiss was one of Lazard’s biggest deal makers, eventually becoming the firm’s global head of investment banking. He worked on InBev’s takeover of Anheuser Busch and Reynolds American’s takeover of Lorillard. (He also sold D.E. Master Blenders to JAB, the investment firm that later bought Keurig.)Since thenHe has considered getting back into investment banking, and has been courted by many a bank. And he might yet start his own shop.Companies want to go public. But recent news suggests that many want to avoid the initial public offering process.Of course, there will still be I.P.O.s.: Uber, Dropbox and Airbnb are all working toward offerings. But if some companies can avoid the process, it appears they will.AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementGo to Home Page »