AdvertisementSupported byNo moment in the 2016 presidential campaign has cried out more for a unifying candidate than the police shootings of two black men last week and the ensuing national uproar, followed by the shocking sniper ambush that killed five police officers in Dallas.And no other moment has revealed more starkly how hard it is for Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton to become that candidate.Of the two, Mrs. Clinton would seem more able, and driven, to try to bring the country together. She has a large following among black voters and speaks ardently about the need for “respect” and “love and kindness.” After Dallas, she called on “white people to understand how African-Americans feel every day.” Yet many on the right and some on the left dislike her intensely, and even her admirers say she lacks the public emotion, oratorical skills and reputation for honesty to persuade large numbers of Americans to see things her way.“Trump is 100 percent saying the right things about police and respecting authority, but then he says these other comments that are too weird for voters to ignore,” said Fred L. DeLuca, a Trump supporter and former police officer who owns a graphic supply store in Youngstown, Ohio. “And Hillary — I don’t trust what she says about law enforcement, not at all.”Traumatic events have at times become opportunities for presidential candidates to step up and grow in the eyes of the American public, such as when Bill Clinton went to Los Angeles in 1992 in the aftermath of the riots there, or when Barack Obama pushed for aggressive, bipartisan action from the federal government to stem the banking crisis and protect taxpayers.Mr. Clinton’s new-generation image and empathic personality appealed across party lines, as did Mr. Obama’s historic candidacy. And in moments of national crisis, presidents have shown ability to unify the country, if fleetingly, like George W. Bush did after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.These candidates did not have to sell themselves to voters against such an intense combination of terrorism, mass shootings, police and gun violence, social unease and free-floating fear. Still, the current run of crises has, in the view of many Democrats and Republicans, served only to spotlight the shortcomings of both Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton.“The sense of alienation and estrangement is so great today that it’s hard to unite people, and these candidates haven’t done it,” said the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a Clinton backer.The historian Doris Kearns Goodwin compared the current political climate to the Civil War era and recalled Lincoln’s “House Divided” speech, during his 1858 Senate campaign, in which he analyzed the deep divisions between the North and the South and predicted that the country would become more united — but first slavery had to be eliminated or made the law of the land. She said Lincoln proved to be a president who would go to war to unify the country, and credited President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with mobilizing forces around the country and in Congress in the 1960s to pass civil rights legislation that — while highly divisive — also brought greater equality for Americans.“If Trump was a more disciplined, focused candidate, this could be his moment to win over Americans because the desire for a strong leader is great in moments of turbulence,” she said. “But look at his record. After ‘Brexit,’ he talked about the weak currency helping his golf course. After the Orlando shootings, it was, ‘I told you so.’ After the F.B.I. report on Hillary, he couldn’t focus on that. Voters want candidates to show we can trust them, and both candidates have this problem.”Get the latest national and state polls on the presidential election between Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump.Mr. Trump, whose poll ratings grew after his forceful responses to terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., tried to sound similarly resolute on Friday evening, saying in a video that law enforcement was “the force between civilization and total chaos.”And, he said, “Now is the time for prayers, love, unity and leadership.”Vernita Blocker, a retired social work administrator from Lindenwold, N.J., supports Mrs. Clinton but said she worried that Mr. Trump might be better suited to capitalize on Americans’ concerns about fraying social order.“The more people are afraid, the more it plays into Trump’s hands because they will want a strongman-type president,” Ms. Blocker said. “Hillary has to find more ways to persuade people that she could really unite the country despite all the people who don’t like her.”Yet Mr. Trump is still having trouble uniting his own party, while Mrs. Clinton appears further along with Democrats.The conventions this month will be huge opportunities for the nominees to galvanize the faithful, but also a chance to reach out to the other side with traditionally positive speeches about their hopes for the country.On policy, Mrs. Clinton is also eager to find common ground on gun control and criminal justice reform — issues that resonate with many voters at a time of seemingly endless violence. While new gun laws are opposed by many on the right, she wants Americans to at least talk about finding solutions — if not uniting behind them.“I think ‘unity’ is the wrong goal, and what we need can’t be achieved by lofty oratory alone,” said Wendy L. Wall, an associate professor of history at Binghamton University. “Often in our past, unity has meant burying disagreements rather than solving common problems. What we need now is someone who can work across differences, not erase them.”“I think there is no way Trump could do this,” she added. “I think the jury is still out on Clinton.”Giovanni Russonello contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS