AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning from Andrew Ross Sorkin in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and Michael J. de la Merced and Amie Tsang in London. Andrew spent Sunday in Dhahran taping a television interview for CNBC at Saudi Aramco’s headquarters with its C.E.O. ahead of the kingdom’s Future of Finance Initiative — known informally as Davos in the Desert — that starts Tuesday morning.Throughout the week, we’ll bring you all the back-room chatter and details about an Aramco I.P.O.But the question the Saudi oil giant has been careful to avoid answering is: Where will that offering take place?Amin Nasser, the oil giant’s chief executive, told Andrew that the listing remained on track and denied reports that it could be delayed or shelved in favor of selling private shares.“We have always said that we will be listing in 2018, and to be more specific, in the second half of 2018. However, I think journalists and writers — they are expecting more and more information, and we are governed by, you know, certain rules with regard to talking about the I.P.O. and all of that.”Note that Mr. Nasser doesn’t mention whether both parts of a potential Aramco I.P.O. — listings on both Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul exchange and on an international stock market like the N.Y.S.E. or the London Stock Exchange — are on track. He also denied that the company was talking with Chinese investors about a private placement. But do remember to parse those remarks: It is possible that the kingdom, not the company, would negotiate with the Chinese or others.For the betting types, here’s what Mr. Trump told Maria Bartiromo: “I’ve been seeing a number of people and most people are saying it’s down to two, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Powell. I also met with Janet Yellen, who I like a lot.”That may mean that John B. Taylor of Stanford University, who reportedly has the backing of Mike Pence, is the interest rate hawk more likely than Mr. Warsh to be nominated.For a plan that White House officials publicly hope can be passed by year’s end, the proposed Republican tax overhaul still seems awfully in flux. The latest idea: creating what’s essentially a fourth tax bracket by giving those who earn at least $1 million a year a top marginal rate of 39.6 percent.Don’t forget about corporate taxesOn the agenda this week• Ivanka Trump is headed to a town-hall meeting in Pennsylvania today to talk tax reform, and in particular to argue for expanding the child tax credit.• Mr. Trump is scheduled to attend Senate Republicans’ weekly policy lunch tomorrow to discuss taxes.“Howard, at the end of the day, is a giant in the industry,” Mr. Saverin told Michael in an interview. “You can gain a tremendous amount of perspective just from speaking with him for a couple of minutes.”Remember what Fox is already dealing with: It’s seeking approval from the British government for its takeover of the broadcaster Sky, and the Justice Department is still investigating Fox News’s settlements with women who accused Roger Ailes of sexual harassment.What did the Murdochs know? From the NYT:Asked about the allegation of a nonconsensual sexual relationship, a representative for Mr. O’Reilly, Mark Fabiani, said that 21st Century Fox was “well aware” Ms. Wiehl had signed a sworn affidavit “renouncing all allegations against him,” adding that after receiving the document Fox News offered Mr. O’Reilly “a record-breaking contract.”And then there was FidelityBrian Hogan, president of Fidelity’s stock-picking division, held an emergency meeting to stress the firm’s “zero tolerance policy.” From the WSJ:The issue of workplace conduct has been simmering within Fidelity’s stock-picking unit in particular for years. A 2015 internal report warned of cultural problems particularly adverse for women, according to interviews with more than a dozen former Fidelity analysts and portfolio managers.More must-readsIn other global monetary newsM.&A.Policy and LegalBanks and BankingI.P.O.s and OfferingsBusiness and EconomyAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS