AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseWhy prosecutors decided to throw the book at Mr. Warren remains a mystery. Although it’s obvious he infuriated them at his interrogation, where he perhaps unwisely testified without a lawyer to defend him, little evidence related directly to him has emerged in pretrial motions. About the worst that has been said is that he was in a room with others on one occasion when elements of the plan were discussed.But simply being indicted in a prominent fraud case has damaged his once-promising legal career. Williams & Connolly, the prestigious law firm based in Washington known for its white-collar criminal defense work, withdrew a job offer. Mr. Warren had expected to work there after finishing his clerkship on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit this summer. (A partner at Williams & Connolly said the firm did not comment on personnel matters.)The judge in Mr. Warren’s case did grant a motion to sever his trial, which means he won’t suffer any guilt by association with his far higher-ranking co-defendants. But it also means he won’t be tried until after they are, which prolongs the time a cloud will hang over his future.In the meantime, he’s working as a consultant to a small Pittsburgh firm. If there’s any silver lining to his predicament, it’s that he’s getting an immersion in criminal law and procedure that no law school could teach. “He’s resilient and optimistic,” said William J. Murphy, one of his lawyers and a partner at Zuckerman Spaeder. “He believes in the criminal justice system, and he’s convinced the evidence will show he didn’t do anything wrong.”Once a leading contender to run Morgan Stanley, where he had spent his entire career before leaving in 2012, Mr. Taubman, 53, was poised to start a boutique firm, PJT Partners. He was negotiating for office space on the block of West 57th Street that’s become investment banking row, and he’d brought on board several partners.After several months of due diligence and frequent meetings with Mr. James, the Blackstone co-founder Stephen A. Schwarzman, and other top officials, they reached a handshake deal by Labor Day. Mr. Taubman will vault from his one-man office to a new publicly traded company with about 400 employees and offices around the world. He’ll be chairman and chief executive.If the initial public offering takes place as scheduled early this year, “this may set a new speed record from conception to I.P.O.,” Mr. Taubman said.He also said he wrote the book in part to encourage others to be open. In that sense, “it’s been a remarkable year,” he said. “A great year.”On Aug. 14, Trevor Burgess, chief executive of Florida-based C1 Financial, rang the opening bell of the New York Stock Exchange to celebrate his company’s first day of trading. In the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Burgess disclosed he has a husband, Gary Hess, who owned shares in the company. He also contacted Out Leadership, an advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered executives, which issued a release drawing attention to Mr. Burgess’s status as a publicly gay chief executive.In response, he received an email from Jason Grenfell-Gardner, chief executive of a pharmaceutical concern, IGI Laboratories, who is also gay and the chief executive of a publicly traded company. “And then there were two,” Mr. Grenfell-Gardner wrote.Today there are more.“For Tim Cook to come out is an incredibly important step,” Mr. Browne said when I reached him recently in London. “But constant vigilance is needed. Look at Russia and Uganda. There are too many forces in the world pushing in the opposite direction.”Still, Mr. Browne said he’d been “overwhelmed” by positive reaction to his book. At a book signing in Henley-on-Thames, a couple asked him to autograph a copy for their son. “We hope this will encourage him to come out,” they told him.After camping for two weeks waiting for Best Buy’s 5 p.m. Thanksgiving opening, Mr. De Armond, 55, a press operator for The News-Press in Fort Myers, landed the door buster he was aiming for — a Panasonic 50-inch LED TV for $199. He has donated it to a local children’s hospital for a fund-raising auction.But Mr. De Armond didn’t waste time getting into another line. The Monday after Thanksgiving, he set up camp outside JetBlue Park for season tickets to Red Sox spring training games. He had to wait only five days for those.When Mr. De Armond and his son recently attended a Miami Dolphins game, some people recognized him from media coverage of his pre-Thanksgiving vigil and asked to have their picture taken with him. Mr. De Armond said his son was embarrassed. “When you do this next year, could you wear a mask?”Mr. De Armond said he received calls from other national retailers hoping he would camp outside one of their stores next year. “My friends are asking me what I’ll do next year to top this,” he said. (One possibility: pitching his tent in Times Square for New Year’s Eve.)I figured Mr. De Armond might have run out of lines to colonize in 2014, but he said a few days before Christmas that he was taking his family to Walt Disney World on Christmas Day, without his tent. “We’ll be waiting in lines just like everybody else,” he said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS