PINTO--Joseph J. Died peacefully on September 9th at his home in South Salem surrounded by people who love him. Born on April 24th, 1933 in Casablanca, Morocco to Jacques M. Pinto and Lunita Toledano Pinto, he was one of the last of the Sephardic Pinto family to be born in Morocco. In September 1939, at age six, he and his family arrived in New York harbor the day Hitler invaded Poland. After several years in Manhattan, the family settled in Greenwich, CT where Joe attended Bruns- wick Academy and then went on to The Lawrenceville School, from which he graduated in 1950. After graduating from Yale University in 1954, he moved back to Casablanca to work for the family tea importing business. Following Morocco&apos;s independence in 1956, he returned to New York and soon after met and married Pauline Badham Pinto. They moved to Paris where, with his brother and cousin, he formed Pinto & Cia., a merchant banking business investing in both operating businesses and real estate. In 1963 he moved to Madrid, where his parents resided, and continued his merchant banking activities and made many deep and lasting personal and business relationships. In 1968 he moved to New York to begin his life-long wish to become an American citizen, which he attained in 1980. Over the 1970&apos;s he was Instrumental in the formation and development of Sea Containers Ltd, an early entrant in the container leasing industry, and led their capital raising efforts over many years as the Chairman of the Finance Committee and a Board member. After Sea Containers, with one of his lifelong friends from Spain, he formed and led a team directing the investment in a number of private companies in the United States, including Loehmann&apos;s, Lehrer McGovern and a handful of other businesses in various industries. To those who knew him personally or in business, Joe was a man of clean reasoning and deep intellect, who was never afraid to ask the simplest of questions, as he was confident, though devoid of ego. He went on to become a private investor and in the early 1990&apos;s formed Hinsdale LLC, the Pinto family&apos;s investment partnership. Alongside his successful business career, his overriding focus was the care and support of his immediate and extended family. He was thoughtful, kind and dignified cherished by his many friends and family members for his generosity, caring and for his desire to lend support. Complementing his disciplined investing, caring support for his family and his many deep friendships, was his passion for horses, especially eventing and fox-hunting. He was a long time member of the Golden&apos;s Bridge Hounds and resident of North Salem, where over many years he and his wife, Linda, enjoyed life at their "gentleman&apos;s farm," Salem Sunshine Farm. He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Linda B. Pinto, his two sons and step-son, Paul and John Pinto and Alger B. Chapman, and his four grandchildren, Emma, Sarah, Jacob and Owen. He also leaves behind his older sister, Ena Abensur, his loving cousin and "little sister," Marina Pinto Kaufman, his close cousin, Maurice E. Pinto, his sister-in-law, Camila Pinto, widow of his brother Morris J. Pinto and many cousins, nieces and nephews whom he loved dearly. We will miss him, but know that his presence will live long in our hearts and actions. A service is planned for 10am on Friday, September 12th, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chappell in Manhattan.