AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinHappy Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:• The heads of Citi and Goldman took home healthy pay raises last year.• Qualcomm didn’t categorically say no to Broadcom’s latest offer.• What financial regulation could look like post-Brexit.• Look who bet big on a pick-up in volatility...Peter Thiel.• R.I.P., BTFD?• Kraft Heinz is due for a big deal.• U.S. Bancorp’s big fine.The good times that returned to Wall Street after President Donald Trump got elected are now flowing into the pockets of the big banks’ C.E.Os:AdvertisementAdvertisementAre those paydays justified?Let’s take Mr. Corbat.Citigroup’s stock rose 25 percent in 2017, a lot more than the 16 percent posted by the KBW Bank Index. Investors piled into bank stocks because of expectations of stronger economic growth, and also because they expected the Trump administration to loosen banking regulations.Citi’s underlying businesses improved last year. The bank also got through the Federal Reserve’s stress tests in 2017 without objections from the regulator, something it had struggled to do in previous years.The message from Citi’s board seems to be that, since the bank’s performance is now much closer to that of its peers, Mr. Corbat’s pay also needs to be in the vicinity of his counterparts on Wall Street.But on other yardsticks, the awards can seem highCiti may be doing better than in the past, but its return on equity, a metric that shows a bank’s return on its capital, was only 6.6 percent last year. Bank of America’s was 6.7 percent. Both are well below the 10 percent earned at JPMorgan.And the makeup of the compensation mattersC.E.O.s’ compensation is made up of different types of pay:• Cash salaries and cash bonuses• Stock-based bonuses that are paid out over the coming years, and whose value is, to differing degrees, dependent on how the company performs in the future.The theory: The more performance-related pay, the more accountable the executive is.Investors should keep an eye on the amount of performance share units (P.S.U.s) that are included in a comp package, since these are usually the type of stock award that are most at risk of a decline in value if a bank underperforms by certain yardsticks.AdvertisementBank of America and Citi would likely assert that the rest of their stock-based awards are also somewhat dependent on the performance of the bank. But shareholders might be happier if all the stock bonus were in P.S.U.s.— Peter Eavis• The decision starts a maximum 75-day clock for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or Cfius, to decide whether to approve or oppose the deal, Bloomberg reports.• Chinese investors have faced heightened scrutiny from Cfius. Since president Trump took office, a half a dozen Chinese deals have fallen apart because of concerns raised by CFIUS, Bloomberg reports.Advertisement• Raising the breakup fee for antitrust reasons beyond $8 billion. That amount, which represents an already high 6.6 percent of the total deal price, still isn’t high enough for Qualcomm. “A breakup fee in the range proposed by Broadcom does not come close to compensating for those risks,” Paul Jacobs, Qualcomm’s chairman, writes in a letter to Broadcom’s chief, Hock Tan.• Make unspecified other commitments meant to assuage antitrust regulators.• Clarify what Broadcom’s intentions are for Qualcomm’s big licensing business.More from Mr. Jacobs’s letter:Our board is open to further discussions with Broadcom to see if a proposal that appropriately reflects the true value of Qualcomm shares, and ensures an appropriate level of deal certainty, can be obtained.If the two sides can’t reach an agreement, then matters may come down to a vote on Qualcomm’s board on March 6. Remember that Broadcom is seeking six of 11 board seats, down from its initial target of unseating all directors.— Michael de la MercedBritain’s government is often criticized for not clearly communicating the type of deal it wants to strike with the European Union as it prepares to leave the bloc.The dilemma Britain faces.Post-Brexit, Britain’s banks and financial firms would lose special rights that allow them to operate in any E.U. country with few restrictions. Britain could fall back on an arrangement that would allow British banks to do business in the E.U. if they operated under regulations that were equivalent to those in the bloc. But this arrangement has drawbacks. It does not cover important types of financial activities, and British banks may have to comply with any changes to regulation that the E.U. introduces.AdvertisementHence the new plan.The scheme that Britain may now propose appears designed to address those problems. It would allow both sides leeway to strike their own rules once they’ve agreed on their main objectives. And it suggests that a monitoring regime and mechanism for resolving disputes be set up.Will the E.U. agree to the plan?The bloc may reject such a proposal because it would risk losing some control over financial regulation. Certain politicians in the E.U. may argue Britain is trying to retain the privileges of the single market while discarding the duties that come with it. Still, some of Europe’s leaders, banks and businesses may support the plan, in the belief that it will minimize disruption and allow the City of London to continue to play a big role in financing the strong economic expansion taking place in Europe.—Peter EavisPeter Thiel.Filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show Thiel Macro, which invests Mr. Thiel’s fortune, held put options on 1.9 million shares of ProShares Short VIX Short-Term Futures as of Dec. 31. The investment is designed to pay off if the VIX rises.It’s unclear whether the fund had maintained those positions through last week. But if it had, he would have reaped a big windfall.Investors piled into bets that volatility would continue to decline last year. And those wagers paid off as the VIX spent 2017 trading at historically low levels. But volatility has picked up this year. After trading below 10 to start the year, the VIX spiked to above 37 during the selloff last week. It finished Friday at 19.The law firm Royds Withy King says it has seen a flurry of cases recently involving disputes over cryptocurrency holdings, one of which was recently valued at $1.4 million.The firm said it is currently working on three separate high-value divorce cases where spouses are seeking the disclosure and a potential share of cryptocurrency assets.Off the top of our heads, we’d think that issues would include a) the reporting, or lack thereof, of holdings and b) the value of any digital money portfolios.— Michael de la MercedAdvertisementMore from Julie Edde, Bei Hu and Suzanne Woolley of Bloomberg:“There’s sort of, ‘Everybody should buy a dip,’ which has become folklore in the markets now. I would say history doesn’t tell you buying dips is always the right answer,” Man Group chief executive officer Luke Ellis said.Another investor, Ian Harnett of Absolute Strategy Research, recommends “sell the rallies” instead.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That question’s sure to greet the company’s C.E.O., Bernardo Hees, during earnings discussions this morning. What’s curious is that he hinted at the topic during a pre-earnings presentation yesterday.Why another deal? It’s what Kraft Heinz and its backers at 3G do best. Meanwhile, sales have been declining, and the company’s last big takeover attempt, at Unilever two years ago, fizzed quickly.The deals flyaroundAdvertisementMore from Emily Flitter of the NYT:For about five years, senior bank employees tried to balance their security system’s constant alerts about suspicious customer activity against internal staffing limitations, the authorities said. In a late-2009 memo, court documents show, U.S. Bank’s anti-money-laundering officer warned the chief compliance officer that employees responsible for investigating the alerts were “stretched dangerously thin.”The upside: U.S. Bancorp’s actions weren’t as bad as HSBC’s or Standard Charter’s.AdvertisementSince its founding nearly five years ago, the men’s grooming company has become an competitor to Procter & Gamble’s Gillette. Now its founders want to create what they describe as a next-generation P. & G.More from Michael’s article:“We’ve built a lot of infrastructure at Harry’s that we think we can leverage into new categories,” Jeff Raider, one of Harry’s founders, said in a telephone interview. “It’s something that we’ve been excited about for a long time, and we’re now at a point in our business where we can act on it.”Advertisement“For most of December and all of January investors were focused on a regulatory crackdown, mostly in Asia,” said Brian Kelly, a CNBC contributor and head of U, which runs a digital assets strategy for clients. “That all changed when C.F.T.C. Commissioner Giancarlo spoke at the Senate Banking Committee and changed the regulatory tone.”“Private schools have done this forever, and it’s a capability that public schools can develop.”AdvertisementGo to Home Page »