Updated, 8:54 p.m. |Mr. Boies and his team had their own prop, too: The television displays in the courtroom shone with a black-and-white image of the cover, complete with a sticker that read “Autographed.”But while the scene of Mr. Geithner sitting in the witness box frequently holding a copy of his own book, paging through with the help of some stylish reading glasses, struck some in the courtroom as a bit farcical, the strategy by Mr. Greenberg’s legal team was carefully orchestrated.Mr. Greenberg’s side believes that much of what Mr. Geithner has said in his book — and which he consequently cannot dispute during the trial without hurting his own credibility — helps the shareholders’ case, according to people briefed on the legal strategy. Mr. Greenberg’s lawyers also obtained transcripts of the unpublished interviews the former Treasury secretary gave to people assisting him with putting together “Stress Test.”While Mr. Geithner mostly concurred with his previous statements, he also struggled at times to explain his own words — seemingly boxed in by judgments he uttered as part of his book.“Certainly Citi and B. of A. were insolvent,” Mr. Geithner had said during the book interview.The two men then engaged in a lengthy back-and-forth over the definition of “insolvent.”During more than six hours of testimony, Mr. Geithner’s was not the only book introduced. The other volume was the secretive compilation of the Federal Reserve’s legal powers, known internally at the central bank as the “Doomsday Book,” which has never been made public.When Mr. Boies moved to introduce two of the editions of the book into evidence, the New York Fed’s own lawyer, John Kiernan, sprang up from the gallery to chime in: The Fed wanted the “Doomsday Book” kept strictly under seal.Judge Wheeler determined he would let the editions into evidence under a temporary seal, until a hearing to determine whether they should stay that way. Mr. Boies did not appear to mind if most of the contents remained secret, as long as he could ask Mr. Geithner certain questions that related to the Fed’s texts.“We were operating outside of the boundaries of established precedent,” Mr. Geithner said.As the trial continues, the civil case, which will be decided by the judge, may rest on whether he believes that the Fed acted within its authority under the Federal Reserve Act in imposing certain terms on A.I.G.’s loan, or if it stepped over the legal line.“It was a failure of the country to put in place a system to constrain risk-taking,” Mr. Geithner said. “Risk migrated to places where constraints did not exist.”By ANDREW ROSS SORKINMaurice R. Greenberg, A.I.G.’s former chief and a large shareholder, has spun a ludicrous tale in court that the bailout of the insurer was unfair to its investors.Advertisement