AdvertisementSupported byBy all modern metrics, Drake was far and away the most listened-to artist of 2016, a year when music consumers further abandoned CDs and paid downloads, and turned increasingly to streaming services.The rapper saw staggering numbers from FM radio to Spotify, where songs from his album “Views” were streamed more than three billion times since their April release, but it was Drake’s exhaustive synergy with Apple Music, where “Views” was played another few billion times, that best illustrated the recent paradigm shifts in the music industry — and signaled where things may yet be headed. (According to Nielsen Music, on-demand streaming now accounts for a larger share of total business — 38 percent — than physical sales, digital album sales or track downloads.)Since its debut in the summer of 2015, however, Apple Music has separated itself from Spotify, the industry’s streaming leader, by trying to become a one-stop shop for major artists — part platform and part promoter.Then there were Drake’s commercials with Taylor Swift.“I don’t think anybody could argue against the incredible value of Apple marketing,” said David Bakula, a senior music analyst for Nielsen. “There are artists they latch onto and say, ‘This is something we are going to heavily promote.’ It makes one of the largest publicly traded companies in the world a sort of tastemaker.”This strategy was not driven so much by Silicon Valley thinkers as record label veterans — namely the Apple Music executives Jimmy Iovine, a former producer who was a founder of Interscope and Beats by Dr. Dre, and Larry Jackson, a onetime A&R man who signed acts like Chief Keef and Lana Del Rey.“We have real understanding of what these artists are trying to accomplish both aesthetically and commercially,” Mr. Iovine said. At Apple, “We’re really getting there in merging these cultures — tech and the arts,” he added. “And we’re trying to prove that we are the best place for an artist to fulfill their vision.”In interviews this month, Mr. Iovine and Mr. Jackson, the quietly influential pair behind the delivery of some of pop music’s most notable 2016 moments, discussed Apple’s place in the music ecosystem and what the future of streaming may hold. These are edited excerpts from those conversations.What did you learn in 2016 that you didn’t realize at the beginning of the year?From my perspective and from Jimmy’s, we’ve always had a very strong knack for signing and nurturing hip-hop and R&B acts. The thing I find more interesting now is: What’s the new pop? Pop has always been considered to be one thing, if you know what I’m saying. But when I look at the top albums of the year — it’s Drake, Beyoncé, J. Cole, Frank Ocean and the Weeknd — all black artists. How is that not pop? You don’t really hear Frank Ocean or J. Cole on pop radio, but streaming has ushered in what the new pop is.There was an idea this year, especially after Frank Ocean released “Blonde” independently through Apple, that you were stepping in where traditional labels may have fallen behind.We do a different thing than labels. They manage hundreds of groups. We don’t, nor could we. We are a platform that works between the artist, the label and the consumer. The day I met Steve Jobs and [the Apple executive] Eddy Cue, I immediately harnessed it for Interscope. I wasn’t threatened by it. The labels need to have people who know how to harness these things and not just say, “Put me on a playlist,” and pray for rain.Have the labels successfully harnessed your platform this year?Some see Apple Music as benefiting only the artistic 1 percent. What’s the best use of the platform for those not on the tier of a Drake or Chance?Were A-list exclusives the most effective way to add subscribers?Is there a concern that the fragmentation of the streaming market, and especially exclusives, incentivizes people to download music illegally?Do you regret how the Frank Ocean situation played out, given the perception that you were party to a fast one being pulled on Def Jam and Universal Music?Why would an artist like Drake ever sign a record contract again given what he’s getting from Apple? Or even someone at the beginning of their career, like Chance?What do the labels do best right now that Apple Music can’t?Was Kanye’s “The Life of Pablo” close to happening with Apple before he ultimately went exclusive with Tidal?Are there albums or artists that you feel like you missed out on?Is there any sort of blood feud between Apple, Spotify and Tidal?Do you think we’ll eventually see a consolidation of these services, or will we continue to see an expansion?How important is it for you to have a creative relationship with artists in addition to a business relationship?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS