AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsWe believe that ISIS will remain financially solvent for the foreseeable future. A conservative calculation suggests that ISIS may generate a surplus of $100 million to $200 million this year that it could reinvest in state-building.America’s post-9/11 approach to blocking terrorist financing will not be effective against ISIS because the group uses money as an instrument of statecraft. Its leadership has established institutions that administer an Islamist police state founded under Shariah law. While these institutions provide few tangible services, they consolidate the group’s governing authority by facilitating trade, collecting taxes and maintaining control over the local population.Moreover, ISIS has never relied on basic formal financial institutions, such as banks. Instead, it has tended to reinvest its revenues in its own organization to further its fighting and state-building agendas.President Obama’s decision last week to conduct airstrikes and send humanitarian aid will help buy time for both Iraqi and Kurdish forces to regroup. But Baghdad needs a strategy that aligns the political and economic interests of all Iraqis against ISIS. The group’s center of gravity lies not in the international financial system but within the local economies of Iraq and Syria. Regardless of what limited additional measures America decides to undertake in the coming weeks and months, there are three possible Iraqi policies that could help turn the tide.If Iraq succeeds in replacing Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, as now seems likely, the new unity government should decentralize power and distribute a larger portion of the national budget to Sunni-majority areas. Baghdad should also work to strike deals with local Sunni tribes and business owners where ISIS has not yet taken control. These Sunni leaders would cooperate in squeezing ISIS out of local markets in exchange for subsidies and other direct government economic assistance.Second, America could help the Iraqis and the Kurds analyze ISIS financial information collected in raids and from informants, and then use that information to plot a strategy and to plan operations.The United States can help at the margins, but ultimately only the Iraqis have the power to defeat ISIS.Patrick B. Johnston is a political scientist at the RAND Corporation, whereBenjamin Bahney is a member of the adjunct staff.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS