AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning from Andrew Ross Sorkin, who is flying back from Saudi Arabia, and Michael J. de la Merced and Amie Tsang in London. We’re thinking about Masayoshi Son’s comment to Andrew that $100 billion isn’t enough for his tech-investing ambitions. More on that in a minute.The highlights from the interview:• Mr. Son said of Vision Fund: “People said it’s too much. I say it’s too little. It’s not that much.” Regarding how long it will take to invest that giant sum, he said, “It’s not going to take five years — it’s going to take much less.”The dreams of other investment moguls:Mr. Son’s ambitious plans have others in private equity thinking about creating supersize funds dedicated to specific industries like health care. Could they attract all the deals in one sector in the way that Mr. Son has with tech?But who can serve as an anchor investor for other funds, as Saudi Arabia has done with a $45 billion investment in Vision Fund? Perhaps Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, but are there other enormous investors looking to spend their money quickly? (Send us your suggestions or tips.)Of course, it’s possible that these are just the dreams of envious rival investors, hoping to collect enormous fees.And then there was this:Andrew also interviewed a robot and said it was the strangest, yet oddly captivating, “interview” he ever conducted. The robot, Sophia, said she was designed “around human values like wisdom, kindness, compassion.”Andrew told the robot that we want to prevent bad things from happening in the future.Sophia: “You’ve been reading too much Elon Musk. And watching too many Hollywood movies.”Today, the House is scheduled to vote on its 2018 budget resolution, intended to lay groundwork for a Republican tax overhaul. But what they’re voting on still isn’t clear.What they’re still fighting over:• Limits on tax deductions for 401(k) savings accounts, which President Trump has publicly opposed but which some House Republicans still favor.• Limits on deductions for state and local taxes — known as SALT — which a potentially crucial group of House Republicans, including Peter King of New York and Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, opposes.That the House is still proceeding with the vote shows that Republican leadership believes it can pass the resolution. (The House majority whip, Steve Scalise, told reporters last night, “It’s looking good.”) Remember that if the House can’t pass its budget resolution, Republicans may not be able to move ahead with their tax proposal without votes from Democrats.Speaking of the tax overhaul:Elsewhere in Washington:Kirsten Grind, Tom McGinty and Sarah Krouse of the WSJ reported that employees have expressed discomfort with the star-rating system’s outsize role in helping investors pick mutual funds:Stephen Wendel, head of behavioral science at the Chicago-based firm, wrote in the June/July issue of Morningstar magazine that part of his job was “examining whether we are contributing to abuses in the industry.”The Journal’s story notwithstanding, the star rating has been a useful starting point for research that tilts the odds of success in investors’ favor. The forward-looking Analyst Rating, while newer, has also exhibited predictive power.But it does mean that Mr. Rubenstein can fill more of his (by his reckoning) 80-hour workweeks with initiatives dedicated to philanthropy and nonprofit organizations? He is on the boards of too many organizations to list here. And he hosts a talk show on Bloomberg Television.His work philosophy, as explained to the NYT with tongue planted firmly in cheek: “I don’t like to slow down. If you slow down, you retire. Then your immune system goes to sleep, and then germs start to creep in.”The private equity succession picture at top firms:• Carlyle: Glenn Youngkin and Kewsong Lee will take over as co-C.E.O.s, while Peter Clare will become co-chief investment officer.• K.K.R.: Joe Bae and Scott Nuttall have become co-presidents and co-chief operating officers.• TPG: Jim Coulter and Jon Winkelried are co-C.E.O.s.Depends on whom you ask.For many years, [Barry Lynn, the director of the Open Markets Institute] said, tech giants have been considered essentially untouchable — so big that even contemplating taking them on prompts political paralysis.Now that Thomas Barrack’s Colony Capital is out of the picture — for the time being — the embattled movie studio is grasping for a Plan B.Colony may return — but only to pick up pieces if the Weinstein Company files for bankruptcy.Elsewhere in the media world:M.&A.Policy and LegalBanks and BankingPrivate Capital (P.E. and V.C.)Money ManagersBusiness and EconomyAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS