AdvertisementSupported byMore and more companies are asking themselves: What if Amazon comes for our business too?That seems to have prompted the drugstore giant CVS to consider buying the medical insurer Aetna, a deal that could be worth more than $60 billion.The strategic logic of a CVS-Aetna transactionA larger company — CVS and Aetna have combined annual revenues of about $240 billion — could enjoy greater leverage in negotiations with drug companies, helping it defend itself against newcomers like Amazon.CVS felt further compelled to make a dramatic move after federal antitrust regulators recently rejected rival Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc.’s proposed acquisition of Rite Aid Corp., a person familiar with the matter said. That solidified the view that the solution to intensifying competition must come from beyond traditional channels, this person said.The potential terms• CVS has offered to pay over $200 a share. Shares in Aetna rose 12 percent after the WSJ reported on the talks yesterday.• Plan on it having a big stock component, though the precise mix of cash to shares hasn’t yet been decided.The reactionRepublicans are a step closer to being able to overhaul the tax code without Democratic support — but the House vote on a 2018 budget resolution passed by only four votes. And debate still continues on potential limits for 401(k) contributions and deductions for state and local taxes.Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that deductions for state and local taxes were not necessarily doomed.“This is a serious issue, and we’re taking it seriously,” Mr. Brady said. Republican lawmakers from those states “made it clear they need this problem solved before they vote yes on tax reform,” he added.Now, keep these dates in mind ...Nov. 1: The House Ways and Means Committee will formally introduce the tax bill.Nov. 6: Debate on amendments begins.More tax pointsAlso in politicsWhite Tale’s argument? The proposed merger had “no strategic rationale and is in fact a complete reversal of the company’s longstanding strategy of becoming a pure-play specialty chemicals company.”“We believe that there is simply too much uncertainty as to whether Clariant will be able to secure the two-thirds shareholder approval that is required to approve the transaction under Swiss law.”Speaking of activists flexing their muscles$235 billion.That’s the value of divestitures — including sales, spinoffs and the winding down of joint ventures — that G.E. has announced since the departure of Jack Welch as C.E.O., according to data that Thomson Reuters analyzed for us. That makes the company a net seller of businesses, having bought $218 billion during the same period.That’s why John Flannery, G.E.’s new chief executive, told investors — after a terrible quarterly earnings report — that the company had identified up to $20 billion of assets that could be sold.What’s striking is that if current trends continue — particularly growth in Chinese property prices and the general increase in wealth of China’s and India’s middle classes — UBS and PwC say they expect Asia to outstrip the United States in overall wealth within four years. Of course, the report cautions, there’s still plenty of volatility in the Asian economic outlook.Policy and LegalBanks and BankingPrivate Capital (P.E. and V.C.)Business and EconomyAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS