His longtime assistant, Kathy Daly, said he died after a prolonged illness, which she did not specify.In a statement, two other co-founders of Kleiner Perkins, Brook Byers and Frank Caufield, said Mr. Perkins had helped define entrepreneurial venture capital.Kenneth Lerer, the venture capitalist who helped found The Huffington Post and is the chairman at BuzzFeed, and Nicole Seligman, a former Sony executive and lawyer who represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial, are being considered, according to people briefed on the discussions.Also on the list are Judith McHale, the former Discovery Communications chief, and Thomas J. May, the chairman of Eversource Energy utility company, these people said.It is unclear whether these people have formally accepted the positions.The problem for Viacom is that its directors other than Mr. Redstone have decided to oppose a leadership change and support Philippe P. Dauman, the chief executive. Mr. Dauman’s opposition is based on claims that Mr. Redstone is not competent, which somehow translate to the actions of National Amusements’ board being illegitimate.There is also the option of claiming that National Amusements’ amendments are void because of claims of Mr. Redstone’s incompetency. But this would be hard to establish as National Amusements has its own board and is a functioning company. And if Mr. Redstone is indeed incompetent, then his interest goes to the trust from which Mr. Dauman and George Abrams have been removed.If Viacom does pursue litigation, it may be a cue for National Amusements and Mr. Redstone to finally unseat the Viacom board. National Amusements could also invoke the seldom-used summary procedures in the Delaware code for contested elections of directors and procedures to confirm the validity of its appointments. This would allow National Amusements to raise the ante if Viacom does litigate over the amended bylaws.Viacom has difficult decisions to make and very little time to make them in.Convenience stores that handle remittances need an account to deposit the cash, but because it is so hard for banks to know the identity of the final customer, remittances companies and their agents are being categorized as high risk for money laundering.Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase scrapped their low-cost remittance services two years ago. Last year, Citigroup agreed to pay $140 million to regulators for failing to safeguard against money laundering and shut down its Banamex USA Unit.AmeriMex Communications, a company that sells cellphone minutes to people in the United States to give to family or friends in Mexico, has started to work with convenience store owners on a prepay basis because many are also money-transfer agents and their bank accounts have been frozen, said Don Aldridge, AmeriMex’s chief executive.“The fact that, over the same time period, the overall level of U.S.-to-Mexico remittances appears to be healthy and growing may indicate that some of the weaker institutions are losing access and the market may be consolidating under stronger participants — which would not be a bad thing,” said Daniel L. Glaser, assistant Treasury secretary for terrorist financing.Advertisement