AdvertisementSupported byA South Korean court found that there was sufficient evidence that Mr. Lee had bribed the government, expecting to gain state support for a merger of two Samsung-controlled companies.South Korea has historically dealt light penalties to major business figures. But Mr. Lee’s conviction may embolden the country’s leaders to put further pressure on business empires, known as chaebols, that helped lift the nation from the ashes of the Korean War but which are now seen as sources of corruption.The prison sentence will also test whether the Samsung conglomerate can still thrive without the Lee family at the helm. The company had argued that Mr. Lee was the one providing a long-term strategic vision.• Lee Kun-hee, Mr. Lee’s father who was convicted twice of tax evasion and bribery• Chung Mong-koo, the chairman of Hyundai Motor Group, who was convicted of embezzlement and breach of duty• Chey Tae-won, the chairman of SK Group, who was convicted of fraud in 2003 and of embezzlement in 2013But The New York Times notes that this time might be different: South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, took power after his predecessor was impeached because of corruption. And Mr. Moon has promised to take on his country’s business empires.Why? Amazon appears to be using one of its tried-and-tested tactics, enormous price cuts intended to win market share, on an industry with low margins. And the new war is starting on Monday, when the takeover is expected to wrap up.• organic avocados• organic responsibly-farmed salmon and tilapia• organic baby kale and baby lettuce• animal-welfare-rated 85-percent-lean ground beef• creamy or crunchy almond butterLet’s take a look at the investment terms:Here are the top questions facing investors and analysts:Here are the highlights:• Moving to a territorial tax system, rather than taxing corporate profits worldwide• Eliminating many corporate deductions, but lowering the overall business tax rate to an unspecified level• No border-adjustment tax, which would make imports more expensive• The White House wants the legislation to pass by year’s end. “It’s not like they are just starting the process now,” Mr. Cohn said.He also spoke about Mr. Trump’s comments on the white nationalist rally at Charlottesville, Va., where the president blamed “many sides” for the outbreak of violence. News reports have said that Mr. Cohn, who is Jewish, was upset by the remarks but did not plan to resign.“As a patriotic American, I am reluctant to leave my post as director of the National Economic Council because I feel a duty to fulfill my commitment to work on behalf of the American people,” he told the F.T.Merger activity has been healthy so far this year, with announced deal volumes worldwide up 4 percent to $2 trillion as of Aug. 1, according to Thomson Reuters. Yet much of the activity has come not from the classic blockbuster transactions that dominate headlines, but from smaller deals.The volume of small deals, or those worth less than $20 billion, announced this year is up 30 percent, Goldman Sachs estimates. The volume of large deals is down 40 percent.• Corporate leaders expected more policy changes, particularly around taxes, infrastructure investments and a health care overhaul.• Many important regulatory positions, particularly those overseeing antitrust, have not been filled. “They don’t have the people in place to really drive the decision making at this point,” Mr. Waldron says.• Goldman remains optimistic about the prospects for deal making in general heading into the back half of the year.Regulators are scrutinizing HNA Group. A Wall Street bank has stepped away from it.And more questions are being raised about who owns the Chinese conglomerate.Take Pacific American Corporation, or PAC.HNA says it is an independent company that buys engines, spare parts and other airline equipment for Hainan Airlines, HNA’s subsidiary.The younger brother, Chen Guoqing, was instrumental in helping to create the initial ownership structure of HNA through entities set up in Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands, which effectively obscured the ownership.The lack of disclosures may have violated China’s securities laws on “connected” transactions, say experts on Chinese law.Related Reading:AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS