The other new additions to the board are Tor R. Braham, a former technology investment banker at Deutsche Bank; Eddy W. Hartenstein, a director of Tribune Publishing and former chief executive of The Los Angeles Times; and Richard S. Hill, chairman of Tessera Technologies.Yahoo and the board are still looking through the preliminary bids received last week, which include proposals from Verizon Communications, TPG Capital, Silver Lake, and a consortium led by Bain Capital and Vista Equity Partners.Starboard was spun off from the financial firm Ramius five years ago. It started off pressuring the Internet company AOL, demanding that it shut its Patch local news arm and sell off its patents. AOL eventually did exactly that, though Starboard did not gain any board seats. It managed in 2014 to oust the entire board of Darden Restaurants using a campaign that involved a 300-page presentation castigating the company for a host of sins, including profligate breadstick distribution.Not all of its campaigns have been that successful though. In 2013, Starboard sought to block the $4.7 billion sale of Smithfield Foods to a Chinese meat processor, but failed to put together a rival offer.The Canadian drug maker’s shares have plunged 85 percent since he first pitched the company as one of his best investment ideas last year.Paulson & Company, Viking Global Investors, Brahman Capital, and his own firm Pershing Square Capital Management have all lost billions betting on Valeant.Hedge funds spend tens of millions of dollars on outside research as well as their own teams of analysts, but they are also influenced by their counterparts, exchanging ideas at charity events and industry dinners.Company founders often reign supreme in Silicon Valley and corporate structures have shifted to accommodate that philosophy. More tech companies have been adopting different stock classes to allow their founders to cement their voting power.The new C shares allow Mr. Zuckerberg to maintain 60 percent of voting power while still giving away large amounts of stock.Mr. Zuckerberg would obtain a large amount of C shares that he can donate without diluting his voting power in the company.Most investors currently hold A shares, which only have about a quarter of the overall shareholders’ voting power so they may not be forgoing much if they choose to sell their A shares versus their C shares.The social network also reported robust earnings for the first quarter, surpassing Wall Street expectations. Sales rose 52 percent to $5.3 billion from a year ago, while profit tripled to $1.5 billion. Shares rose 9 percent in after-hours trading.Advertisement