The Alibaba Group, the e-commerce giant, closed the day at $93.89 a share on the New York Stock Exchange, up 38 percent from its initial public offering price in a strong trading debut. The stock began the day at $92.70 a share.Alibaba has captured the attention of American investors, politicians and consumers to an extent that is unusual for a company that does much of its business in China.DealBook followed Alibaba’s market debut:Alibaba’s stock debut has breathed new life into one of the stock market’s favorite parlor games.Yahoo owns a large stake in Alibaba, which has led to a debate over what Yahoo will be worth once it sells its Alibaba holding. The exercise can be cruel to Yahoo. Using Alibaba’s Friday stock price, Yahoo’s remaining stake in the company has a stock market value today of about $38 billion.Some people subtract that sum from Yahoo’s market capitalization of $41 billion and then assert that the remaining $3 billion is the value that investors are effectively ascribing to Yahoo’s core operations. Though Yahoo has problems, that $3 billion appears too low. It would only value the company at around 2.4 times the $1.23 billion of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, that analysts expect Yahoo to make this year.So what explains the odd result? Perhaps the market believes Yahoo will liquidate its Alibaba stake for less than its current value on the stock market. Under this exercise, the less the stake is ultimately worth to Yahoo, the more Yahoo’s core operations are worth.One way that Yahoo gets less from the stake is if it has to pay substantial amounts of taxes as it sells its holdings. If Yahoo gets hit by a tax rate of, say, 25 percent on the holding, it would net Yahoo $28 billion, not $38 billion.Subtracting $28 billion from Yahoo’s $41 billion stock market value, in theory, implies that its core operations are worth roughly $13 billion. That is about 10.5 times the forecast for Yahoo’s 2014 Ebitda. In some ways, that multiple looks pricey; it’s nearly double that of AOL. On the other hand, it is below Google’s 15.5  times multiple.As you can see, this is no more than a parlor game.Alibaba has closed the trading day at $93.89 a share, a 38 percent increase over the I.P.O. price. Anyone who bought shares at the start of trading this morning, however, would end up with a gain of just over 1 percent.At the close, Alibaba has a market capitalization of $231 billion.The stock experienced heavy volume during the day, with more than 270 million shares changing hands.By DAVID BARBOZAAlibaba, started by Jack Ma in 1999, is about to sell shares in the United States that could value the company at about $160 billion.Even as all eyes were on Jack Ma, another Asian magnate also roamed the stock exchange floor on Friday.That would be Masayoshi Son, the chief executive of the Japanese telecommunications giant SoftBank. His company is the largest shareholder in Alibaba, with a 32.4 percent stake.Mr. Ma’s star, meanwhile, is on the rise, reflecting also the emergence of China as an economic power.Even as the value of its Alibaba stake rose, investors punished Yahoo as the day wore on.Yahoo, which became a big investor in Alibaba in 2005, raised about $8.3 billion in cash (before taxes) by selling 121.7 million shares via Alibaba’s I.P.O. last night. It still owns a 16.3 percent stake, worth $37.2 billion at the start of trading this morning.That’s a huge number, particularly when compared with Yahoo’s market capitalization, which stood at about $42 billion at Thursday’s close.One clue to the investor reaction might lie in Yahoo’s trading activity in the months before the I.P.O. Investors had treated Yahoo as a way to bet on the still-private Alibaba. Now, that dynamic has changed.“You no longer need to own Yahoo as a proxy for Alibaba. You no longer need to tangle up your fortunes with that management team and the core business,” said Colin W. Gillis, an analyst at BGC Financial who covers Yahoo.Yahoo has said it plans to return at least half of the cash it raised from the I.P.O. to shareholders. But its plans for its remaining stake in Alibaba are less certain.By VINDU GOELMarissa Mayer, chief of Yahoo, will have to prove to Wall Street that she has a plan to save the company after it sells its stake in Alibaba.Alibaba’s soaring debut on the stock market has given the company an overall value of about $223 billion. As others have pointed out, that value exceeds even Facebook’s market capitalization of $200 billion.But from another perspective, Facebook is far ahead. The social network company’s market value is 83 times larger than its earnings for the 12 months through the end of June.For Alibaba, that multiple is 45 times, roughly half that of Facebook. Because the two companies have similar growth prospects and profit margins, they should in theory trade at similar multiples. The fact that Alibaba has a lower valuation suggests that investors have reservations about the Chinese company that they don’t have about Facebook. Investors may want to see a longer track record of earnings growth before awarding Alibaba a higher multiple. A “China discount” may also be to blame.It’s already harder for investors to understand foreign businesses. But such concerns may be compounded for Chinese companies. Accounting scandals have hit Chinese firms, and their auditors typically aren’t inspected by the American auditor regulator. Chinese firms also have unusual corporate structures that prevent foreign investors from taking a proper ownership stake in the companies.Then again, investors can talk themselves into buying any stock if they think it is going to keep going up. And Friday’s rise may be all the convincing they need.Shares of Alibaba jumped in early trading and were soon testing $100.The stock price has now come down a bit, trading closer to $90 a share after more than an hour following its debut.  That still represents a first-day pop of some 33 percent from its initial public offering price of $68. Trading is heavy, with more than 165 million shares changing hands.Alibaba’s huge initial public offering generated a lot of money for the few investors who sold shares, but none made more on an absolute basis than Yahoo, which reaped about $8.3 billion.So naturally, executives from the American Internet company were on hand to take part in the pricing celebration that engulfed the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Standing inside Barclays’ post on the floor — specifically Post Eight, continuing Alibaba’s fascination with lucky numbers — were Ken Goldman, Yahoo’s chief financial officer, and Jacqueline Reses, the company’s chief deal maker and a director on Alibaba’s board.As the discussions in the booth swelled closer to the pricing, Mr. Goldman and Ms. Reses joked with officials from the Big Board and top bankers from Alibaba’s six lead underwriters. Among those in the booth cracking wise were James B. Lee Jr., vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, and Daniel Dees, a co-head of technology, media and telecommunications investment banking at Goldman Sachs.Alibaba started trading with a market capitalization of about $228.5 billion, making it more valuable than Facebook and Amazon but not nearly as large as Google. Here are the market caps of some other tech giants, as of around noon on Friday:Who wants to compete with Alibaba? Almost no one, judging by the market for initial public offerings.Alibaba’s I.P.O. was so enormous, the attention it commanded in recent weeks so overwhelming, that the rest of the market essentially ground to a halt ahead of the Chinese company’s listing on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.‘It’s a bad idea to go public on the same day as Alibaba,” said Matt Kennedy, an analyst with Renaissance Capital, which tracks I.P.O.s.In the previous week, just four other companies priced their public offerings, all of them small health care companies. Meanwhile, more than dozen companies are expected to go public next week, once Alibaba is out of the way.“Some companies have avoided going public this week because of all the hoopla with Alibaba,” said Jay Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida.Citizens Financial originally hoped to list this week, but delayed to make room for Alibaba. The bank now plans to raise as much as $3.5 billion next week.Wayfair, a Boston-based technology company, had also considered this week for its stock market debut, but pushed the timing back so as not to be overshadowed by Alibaba.As Alibaba’s chief executive, Jack Ma, led his company’s roadshow over the last week, other company chieftains wisely chose not to compete for the focus of institutional investors.“Alibaba is naturally getting all the attention,” Mr. Kennedy said. “People are excited about the deal and spending all their time getting information about it.”As for the few biotechnology companies that did price this past week, those shares are typically bought not by portfolio managers at big institutional investors, but by managers of smaller funds. “They wouldn’t be on the same radar,” said Mr. Kennedy. “It’s a different investor.”Besides not wanting to compete with Alibaba for attention, other companies on the cusp of going public didn’t want to compete for institutional investors’ dollars. In advance of Alibaba’s listing, some portfolio mangers have had to sell out of other tech companies to make room for Alibaba in their funds.Indeed, the $21.8 billion raised by Alibaba was equal to all the I.P.O.s in the first six months of this year, according to Mr. Ritter. For smaller technology companies looking to go public this month, that means there might be little appetite from investors who have just gorged on Alibaba shares.Nonetheless, the market for new public offerings is as strong as it has been since the dot-com boom. There have been 195 I.P.O.s this year, up 34 percent from last year, according to Renaissance Capital. And after a slow summer for new listings that followed a roaring start to the year, executives at the major exchanges are anticipating a busy end of the year.The New York Stock Exchange is expected to list Citizens, Medley Management and Vantage Energy next week. Nasdaq, which missed out on the Alibaba I.P.O., plans to list as least 10 new companies over the next two weeks, including Civitas Therapeutics, Revo Biologics and Vitae Pharmaceuticals.“We’re going to end the year on an incredibly strong note,” said Nelson Griggs, head of new listings at Nasdaq. “The pipeline is exceptionally strong.”Alibaba has started trading at $92.70 a share around 11:53 a.m., nearly two and a half hours after the market opened.The opening price is a 36 percent jump above the initial public offering price, reflecting investors’ hunger for the shares. The company starts trading with a market valuation of $228.5 billion.James B. Stewart discusses on CNBC the reasons for investor interest in Alibaba, as well as the reasons for concern.Alibaba has a compelling story to tell investors, but the underlying numbers may give some investors pause, James B. Stewart writes in the Common Sense column in The New York Times.For example, at $68 a share, Alibaba’s price-to-earnings ratio is just over 40. EBay, a roughly comparable company, has had an average P/E ratio a little over 26, Mr. Stewart writes:By JAMES B. STEWARTWhat excites investors in Alibaba isn’t just its size, but its prospects of getting bigger. But is it reasonable to assume its dominance will persist?In an interview with CNBC, Masayoshi Son, the chief of SoftBank and a director of Alibaba, shared his optimism for the Internet giant, as well as Japan and China’s economy:Masayoshi Son, the chief of SoftBank and a director of Alibaba, shares his optimism for the Chinese Internet giant, as well as Japan and China’s economy.Mr. Ma spoke with CNBC immediately following the ringing of the bell at the New York Stock Exchange. He described how he plans to spend his own personal wealth.Billionaire Jack Ma, chief of the Alibaba Group, describes how he plans to spend his own personal wealth.… compared the infrastructure of commerce in the U.S. verses in China …Jack Ma discusses Alibaba’s affiliated payments business Alipay and the infrastructure of commerce in the U.S. verses in China.… and said that his hero is Forrest Gump.Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, says his hero is Forrest Gump, saying every time he is frustrated, he watches the movie.Over the course of its 15-year history, Alibaba has struggled to separate itself from a reputation for selling fake products online.On Friday, the day of its listing, it finally has a fake that will inspire pride: A recreation of the facade of the New York Stock Exchange.The structure, which has been put up in the main courtyard of the company’s new campus in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, will serve as the center of festivities Friday evening local time, when the company lists in New York.Though China’s state-run companies are usually quite conservative, the mostly private technology sector is anything but, and over the years Alibaba and its co-founder, Jack Ma, have earned a reputation for throwing a good party.Despite that, two employees said that the mood on the campus was subdued, with many hard at work on Friday morning.One employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the company, said that employees at the campus were generally calm.“It’s not too different from normal,” said the person, who has worked for seven years for Alibaba and is a senior information technology engineer.“It’s not as important as the outside world has made it, and we are super busy, like always,” he said, adding that light rain in Hangzhou was dampening the mood as well.Another employee in the company’s branding department, Zhao Xiuzhi, said the mood was generally happy, but not overly ecstatic.“Today we feel quite happy,” she said. “Everyone is wearing the same T-shirt, which gives a feeling of having accomplished something together.” She added: “Plus, tomorrow’s a Saturday, so I feel relaxed.”Photos of the white T-shirts the employees received spread widely on social media in China. “One must have dreams” was printed on the front, and “What if they come true?” was on the back.Ms. Zhao said she felt tranquil about the money she would earn and also said she was too busy to think too much about the celebrations that night. “But I do feel lucky, since it is the first time I have a chance to witness one company’s I.P.O. event.”In Hong Kong, senior bankers were taking on jobs usually left to junior employees to get in on the action of what was seen as a historic occasion, according to one banker working on the deal who spoke on condition of anonymity.“All bankers working on this I.P.O. have been demoted a few rungs,” the banker said. “You got managing directors doing associate and analyst-level work. It’s like the deal has some sort of mystical power over everyone and all are just acolytes at the altar of Jack Ma and Alibaba.”* Alibaba’s corporate structure is highly opaque. The entity going public, the Alibaba Group, is not based in the United States but in the Cayman Islands. Investors buying into Alibaba will not get a true ownership stake in Alibaba’s operating businesses; instead, the Alibaba Group merely has contractual rights to profits from the businesses.* Alibaba’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCooper’s affiliate in Hong Kong, is not subject to inspections by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which regulates audit firms.* Although the company is dominant today, its future is not certain. Unlike Amazon, Alibaba does not consume lots of cash holding inventory, and it has not used up cash to build a fully fledged distribution network. Rivals like JD.com are building their own networks. If Alibaba were to follow suit, it would be a punitively expensive undertaking.By PETER EAVISOnce the so-called smart money piles into a stock, it’s usually time to start asking dumb questions. And with Alibaba, there are many.A huge crowd of Alibaba employees and partners were in a cordoned-off area just under the balcony where eight Alibaba customers were to ring the bell. Among the crowd was Jack Ma, the Internet titan’s executive chairman, and Joseph Tsai, the executive vice chairman, both tieless and looking relaxed.Many of the employees wore white T-shirts with a blue “Tao doll,” the mascot of Alibaba’s Taobao market, over collared shirts. Selfies and snapshots were taken repeatedly, with the company’s general counsel, Timothy Steinert, featured in a few. Michael Yao, the company’s head of corporate finance, enthusiastically whipped out his smartphone and snapped some photos.The pen grew so crowded that minders repeatedly sought to thin the crowd, but to little avail. At one point, the crowd was urged to squeeze in “like in a subway train.”Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, watched from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as his employees rang the opening bell on Friday.Jack Ma was the New York Stock Exchange at the market open. But he didn’t ring the opening bell.The customers include an American farmer, a Chinese delivery courier, an Olympic gold medalist and a customer service representative for Alibaba’s Taobao marketplace.There are plenty of important numbers to keep in mind when analyzing Alibaba. But a few stand out: 6, 9 and especially 8.Consider how many 8’s appear in the stock offering. The roadshow for the I.P.O. kicked off the week of Sept. 8. The deal priced on Sept. 18. The price was set at $68 a share.If you dig into Alibaba’s prospectus, there are more 8’s, 9’s and 6’s. The company had 18 founders. Its holding company was established on June 28, 1999 (6/28/99). A credit facility it obtained last year was worth $8 billion.The pattern is no coincidence. The number 8 is considered lucky in Chinese culture. The word for eight in Mandarin, “ba,” rhymes with the word for prosper, “fa.” (The Beijing Olympics — in 2008 — began at 8 p.m. on the eighth day of August, the eighth month of the year.)Alibaba just so happens to contain two “eights” in its name.But a debut in September, the ninth month, is also significant. The number 9 is considered desirable because it sounds the same as the word for long lasting, “jiu.”A string of these numbers is even better. Consider, then, the market value Alibaba achieved last night: $168 billion.The trading debut of Alibaba Group comes at a time when the market for initial public offerings has been robust.At $21.8 billion, Alibaba’s offering is the largest in the United States, topping the I.P.O.s of Visa, Facebook and General  Motors. But to really get a sense to how enormous Alibaba is, consider that the market value of the Chinese e-commerce company is nearly as big as the market value of the entire American I.P.O. market so far this year.With its shares priced at $68 each, Alibaba has a market value of about $168 billion.  The combined market value of the 154 companies based in the United States that have already gone public this year is $180.5 billion, says Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ, a research firm.Fully diluted, Alibaba’s market value is $176 billion at $68 a share, says Renaissance Capital, an I.P.O research firm. That would make Alibaba among the top 25 most valuable companies listed in the United States, it says.Word is already emerging on who managed to snag shares in Alibaba’s I.P.O., and unsurprisingly, the biggest of the big investors prevailed.The company and its underwriters allocated the vast majority of shares from the offering to “strategic partners” like mutual funds, according to people briefed on the matter. More than 50 percent of the stock went to the biggest accounts, one of these people said.Behind the allocation, these people said, was a desire to create a solid base of investors willing to stick with the company for the long term.Doug Kass at Seabreeze Partners says the demand was high for shares:TD AMERITRADE SAYS CUSTOMER ORDERS FOR ALIBABA EXCEED CUSTOMER ORDERS FOR TWITTER’S IPO BY 2.5 TIMES $BABABy STEVEN M. DAVIDOFFWhen investors buy shares in an American offering of Alibaba, what exactly will they be buying? asks Steven M. Davidoff in the Deal Professor column.Instead, the company is using a so-called variable interest entity structure. It works for Jack Ma, Alibaba’s co-founder and executive chairman, but whether it works for investors remains to be seen, he writes. He also takes a look in this video:Steven Davidoff Solomon, the Deal Professor columnist, looks at just how much we still don’t know about Alibaba and its business.Alibaba shares aren’t expected to start trading for several hours, but the floor of the New York Stock Exchange is already bustling, and brimming with orange from the company’s logo. Within the Big Board, screens at various posts — especially at Barclays, the designated market maker — are displaying the bright orange Alibaba logo prominently. The logos of other Chinese companies, like Autohome and Leju.com, dot the screens of other market makers.I get the sense some company is going public today. #alibaba $baba //t.co/DX1OEHzLhXAnd the chatter around the floor has a distinctly more Chinese flavor. An estimated 140 media teams from the China region have gathered at the Big Board to cover Alibaba’s market debut.The N.Y.S.E. is also going to great lengths to make sure there are no glitches, so the stock won’t be trading right at the opening bell:Thomas Farley, president of the NYSE Group, provides a preview of Alibaba’s first trade on the New York Stock Exchange.Jack Ma arriving at the New York Stock Exchange. Dozens of onlookers had gathered early Friday in anticipation of Alibaba’s first day of trading.DealBook’s Michael J. de la Merced is at the exchange to follow the debut:More than a few Chinese visitors stop to have their picture taken in front of the NYSE $baba @ New… //t.co/0KMoosJZ5VWith the Alibaba I.P.O. heavily oversubscribed, the world already knows how international and institutional investors feel about the offering. Less emphasis has been placed on what Chinese investors think.HONG KONG — The new Alibaba Group had originally sought to list in Hong Kong. But regulators refused to sign off on its partnership structure, which gives a committee of fewer than 30 of the company’s employees and associates majority control over board appointments.In Hong Kong, that’s not so easy to do.HONG KONG — This isn’t Jack Ma’s first trip to the I.P.O. rodeo.Demand was tremendous back in 2007 when Mr. Ma listed Alibaba.com, a website connecting Chinese exporters with overseas buyers, on the Hong Kong stock exchange. It raised $1.7 billion, a record for an initial public offering by an Internet company in Asia at the time.Alibaba.com originally offered 129 million shares to individual retail investors and received orders for 33 billion shares. The opening-day pop in the stock was impressive: the shares rose 193 percent on their first day of trading, Nov. 6, 2007 — climbing from an offer price of 13.50 Hong Kong dollars apiece, or $1.74, to 39.50 dollars apiece.But Alibaba.com came to market near the top of what proved to be a global rally in equities that would turn into a downward spiral a year later, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers.From a peak of 38.92 dollars just three weeks after its I.P.O., Alibaba.com’s stock plunged and never quite recovered. It was languishing below 10 Hong Kong dollars a share in early 2012 when the parent company, the Alibaba Group, offered to take it private at 13.50 dollars a share — which just so happened to be the I.P.O. price.Advertisement