AdvertisementSupported bySquare Feet“The sarcastic joke is that our headquarters has one of the farthest walks to a Starbucks in Seattle — a quarter of a mile away,” Mr. Phillips said. “But it was a fast-paced real estate search to find space and not lose out on the opportunity.”Similar space races are happening in tech-oriented markets around the country, and like the decision of F5 Networks to move into a top tier, or “trophy,” building, more maturing tech companies are a main driver of occupancy in newer high-end offices. That’s a departure from the days when tech start-ups preferred old warehouses and office buildings converted into wide-open loft offices. Full of exposed brick, wooden beams, high ceilings and concrete floors, the funky work spaces gave birth to tech enclaves in places like San Francisco’s South of Market neighborhood and Manhattan’s Flatiron district.Tenants in the technology, creative and media industries leased more than 8.5 million square feet in trophy buildings in the United States over the 12 months that ended in the first quarter of 2017, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, the Chicago-based commercial real estate brokerage firm. That amounted to 22 percent of all trophy space leased over the period, a year-over-year increase of seven percentage points. It was also second only to the banking and finance sector in total square feet leased.Recent notable tech deals include Facebook’s lease of 436,000 square feet in a new office and residential tower in downtown San Francisco, Spotify’s lease of 378,000 square feet in 4 World Trade Center in Manhattan and HomeAway’s lease of an entire 315,000-square-foot office building under construction in the Domain mixed-use neighborhood in Austin, Tex.But companies in all sectors today — not just tech — are demanding the design elements typically found in the warehouse conversions, such as open floor plans, natural light and exposed ceilings. Along with proximity to transit and amenities, layout is considered an important tool to recruit and retain workers, and developers are obliging tenants in new buildings and those in retrofitted older buildings, particularly modern offices built in the 1980s and later.“It turns out that we look really smart,” said Mr. Daniels, whose early efforts to develop the Mark were halted by the Great Recession. “But it was kind of nerve-racking at the time.”Real estate professionals say older buildings generally lack modern energy efficiencies, elevators, bathrooms and data capabilities. The inability to expand in the converted buildings and their scarcity are also restrictive.“We’re creating an atmosphere of fun, fitness and food, because that’s what tenants are looking for,” Mr. Meghji said. “The role of landlords has evolved — today it’s about providing an experience.”Mr. Daniels added a hotel and event space to the Mark when he resumed development after the recession. The additions appealed to F5 Networks, which ended up leasing 516,000 square feet of space. The changes helped round out the building’s amenity package, which includes lounges, restaurants and a fitness facility.“It all brings a lot more life after 5,” Mr. Daniels said. “The younger set really likes to be entertained — at all times — whether it’s by food, drink or games. They’ve got to have it.”“San Francisco certainly has morphed into more of a ‘big tech’ market, and the companies are all looking at new buildings,” Mr. Sammons said. “I think landlords are feeling much more confident in the market’s long term than they were a couple of years ago, when many tech tenants were start-ups.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS