AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Britain wants its cake in Brexit talks.• One reason the Treasury balked on Dodd-Frank’s bank resolution regime.• What happens now that China controls Anbang Insurance?• General Mills has bought the pet-food maker Blue Buffalo.The cloud storage company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering.AdvertisementDropBox is the latest so-called unicorn, Silicon Valley startups with a private valuation of more than $1 billion, to test the public markets.AdvertisementHere are the details:But revenue growth is slowing. Dropbox took in $1.1 billion of revenue in 2017, a 31 percent increase from $845 million in 2016. The company’s revenue surged by 40 percent in 2016.Dropbox will have to convince investors that it can add new paying users at a fast clip. It had 11 million paying users in 2017, up 25 percent from 2016. But that was a significantly slower pace than the 35 percent increase in 2016.AdvertisementIn theory, Dropbox could squeeze more revenue out of each user, but it has not managed to do that in recent years. Revenue-per-user was $111.91 last year, not that different from $110.54 in 2016 and $113.54 in 2015.Shira Ovide at Bloomberg’s Gadfly uses a valuation for Box, a public company that stores and manages content in the cloud, as a guide for how much Dropbox might be worth on the stock market. Ms. Ovide’s conclusion is not encouraging.Hard truths for Dropbox: Box trades at 5x forward revenue. If Dropbox grows at the same rate as 2017 to $1.45B, then it's valuation would be ~$7 billion. Not what Dropbox wants.— Peter Eavis and Stephen GrocerAndrew notes:It took real leadership for Clark Lauritzen, First National Bank’s president, to make this decision. Will other C.E.O.’s who talk about social responsibility follow suit? Mr. Lauritzen’s bank is privately held by his family, so it may have been easier for him to take such a stand.Visa tried to distance itself from all of this by saying, “Visa co-branded cards do not represent an endorsement by Visa of that cause or organization.” But it also appears unwilling to sign on to the idea I proposed that it prevent customers from using its network to buy assault weapons, high-caliber magazines and bump stocks when it said in its statement about First National Bank ending its deal with the N.R.A., “We strive to make our payment services available to all people in all places, for uses consistent with local, national, and international laws.”The contextAdvertisementMore on gun controlsThe menu is a reminder of how often food is used to help understand Brexit.Why?The cake and cherries rhetoric thrown around in the Brexit debate suggest there is little middle ground between the European Union and Britain. But an alternative way to view the tensions is that so much trade goes on between Britain and the bloc, and others ties are so deep, that both sides will ultimately strike a new relationship that retains much of the existing one. As analysts at Nomura wrote earlier this week:In terms of the bespoke deal issue, we think it is not credible to say the U.K. can only take an off-the-shelf Norway / Switzerland / Turkey / Ukraine / Canada / Mexico deal. They were all bespoke deals when they were made. The idea that the world’s seventh largest economy, an ex-member and a country that will still have strong institutional, economic and geographic ties to the E.U. should not get a bespoke deal is not reasonable, in our view.The paper, produced by the Belgian government for a meeting of diplomats last week, will prove a huge boost to British negotiators and gives new insight into E.U. thinking.— Peter EavisPresident Donald Trump’s “America First” agenda seems to have met its match in the obscure world of international financial regulation.AdvertisementA big reason the Treasury held back: The concerns of foreign regulators.Further, these judges, once designated, could engage in planning and coordination exercises, including cross-border efforts (e.g., the crisis management groups discussed above).Instead, fearing higher costs for United States banks, the Treasury apparently gave the concerns of foreign regulators considerable weight and took an internationalist approach.— Peter EavisThe Chinese manufacturer has built up a $9 billion stake, or just under 10 percent, in the German automaker and parent of Mercedes-Benz.From Bloomberg:The investment in the parent of Mercedes-Benz furthers Hangzhou-based Geely’s foray into the European premium automotive market and ends months of speculation. The Chinese company, controlled by billionaire Li Shufu, already owns Volvo Cars AB, whose refreshed line-up of vehicles have made it a popular alternative to the German luxury stalwarts.Geely also gained control of British sports-car maker Louts Cars last year.The details• The Chinese insurance regulator said Anbang had violated regulations, putting into question its ability to pay claims.• A group that includes China’s central bank, its securities and banking regulators, the country’s foreign exchange regulator and other government agencies will oversee Anbang for a year.• The takeover could be extended if Anbang fails to complete an equity restructuring and resume operations.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementFrom Keith Bradsher and Alexandra Stevenson of the NYT:AdvertisementAdvertisementThe tweet comes as Snap faces growing criticism from users about the redesign of its app.Critics’ cornerRelatedHere’s The Information’s Alfred Lee:Concerned about potential threats to share value and regulatory risks, venture capitalists are asking for rights to receive or buy cryptocurrency in the event of an offering.In some cases, several prominent investors and attorneys told The Information, venture capital firms are seeking to veto cryptocurrency offerings altogether.RelatedAdvertisementWith their average returns dragged down by the weak performance of hedge funds, venture capital and private equity, you would think endowments would be fleeing these so-called alternative investments, which are costly and mostly illiquid, as some large pension funds have done.The tweak would still keep the emergency structures introduced as part of Dodd-Frank as an option.From the NYT’s Peter Eavis:Crucially, the Treasury also wants to keep the emergency government loan. But the Treasury’s proposal does introduce an important and innovative change. It calls for a special type of bankruptcy regime for large financial firms, called Chapter 14. This new regime envisions having a set of specialist judges, working with regulators in the United States and around the world, who could plan for and oversee the bankruptcies of large banks.AdvertisementGo to Home Page »