AdvertisementSupported byElon Musk has finally explained how SpaceX could make money: through a rocket that can both deliver goods to space and fly people from New York to Shanghai in 39 minutes.Mr. Musk made big promises for the reusable “B.F.R.” (the “B” stands for “big” and the “R” for “rocket”), as unveiled at the International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide, Australia. He said it will be able to:• Land on the moon;• Ferry cargo and astronauts to the International Space Station;• Fly people around the world in less than an hour.What Mr. Musk didn’t mention: financial figures to back up his assertions.A cargo mission, without any passengers, could launch as early as 2022. “That’s not a typo, although it is aspirational,” he said. “Five years feels like a long time to me.”Two years later, the next time that Mars and Earth would swing by each other, SpaceX would launch four B.F.R.s to Mars — two carrying cargo, two carrying people.Some critics on Twitter made light of Mr. Musk’s latest promises:But then Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin maintains that they have no need to worry.WSJ’s Kate Davidson:“Not only will this tax plan pay for itself, but it will pay down debt,” he said at a conference in Washington, arguing the proposal would fuel stronger growth, causing tax payments to rise and offsetting the revenue lost from lower rates. He also said lower rates would discourage corporate tax avoidance, which would help boost revenue.Speaking of Mr. MnuchinRecode’s Kara Swisher and Theodore Schleifer:The price of the deal could not be determined, but the contract labor marketplace company has raised about $50 million since it was founded nine years ago. Sources added that TaskRabbit will become an independent subsidiary within Ikea and that C.E.O. Stacy Brown-Philpot and its staff would remain.Pitchbook says that Ikea’s previous acquisitions have ranged in price from $20 million to $90 million, according to Recode.But the deal is moving Ikea into the controversy over the “gig economy.”By purchasing TaskRabbit, Ikea is risking wading into a legal fray that has vexed Silicon Valley businesses that rely on freelancers. Workers, most notably of Uber, have sued such companies, saying they should be treated as employees rather than independent contractors, and get benefits such as minimum wages and paid vacations.“[The presentation to the Senate] showed an enormous lack of understanding from the Twitter team of how serious this issue is, the threat it poses to democratic institutions and again begs many more questions than they offered. Their response was frankly inadequate on every level.”LondonUber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, has been publicly contrite as he tries to get back into London regulators’ good graces. But it isn’t clear that his attitude has seeped through to the rest of the company.[London Mayor Sadiq] Khan pointedly contrasted Mr. Khosrowshahi’s approach to that of officials in Uber’s London operation, whom he described as arrogant. “I just wish Uber U.K. had acted in a similar manner in the recent past,” Mr. Khan told The Evening Standard. “This arrogance where big companies that have lots of customers don’t have to play by the rules is one that I think is wrong.”But Uber appears to have won the backing of one British politician: Prime Minister Theresa May.LyftLyft is still far smaller than Uber, and it operates only in the United States. But as it prepares to raise money — through a new fund-raising round, an initial public offering, or both — it could cause headaches for its bigger rival.Additional capital – whether from new investors, an I.P.O., or both – would help it expand into more cities, and gain riders and drivers. . ... Fresh financial firepower would enable the company to take advantage of Uber’s woes, and should help close the tremendous valuation gap between the two firms.Most of the richest men in China, Japan and South Korea run companies with few, if any, female board members.Many of Asia’s billionaires are less likely to have women on their boards because they control their companies through their own shareholdings or those of family members and family-controlled entities, according to Suken Bhandari, Singapore-based head of advisory for the region for ISS Corporate Solutions, a U.S.-based consulting firm.Although women control the lion’s share of consumer spending, they’ve accounted for less than 10 percent of [Samsonite’s] net sales.“Most of the people running the company are men and as a masculine brand, we were predominantly designing products and stores with men in mind,” C.E.O. Ramesh Tainwala explained.Before the former Microsoft C.E.O. was shouting on the sidelines of the Los Angeles Clippers, which he owns, he was screaming on the sidelines of a third-grade basketball team that he coached in Bellevue, Wash.Steve took coaching seriously and even brought in an NBA shooting coach to help us with our form. Steve loved the team, and we loved playing for Steve. He was running one of the most successful companies on earth and still making time to coach us. He never missed one of our games.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS