The Isle of Youth — which has been both a Communist Utopian getaway and home to a brutal prison that housed Castro for a time — is a world apart, even by Cuban standards.Supported byThere’s nothing like a total absence of safety measures to add a little excitement to a historical site. Within an hour of landing on La Isla de la Juventud, the Isle of Youth, I was clambering through an underground tunnel in the Presidio Modelo, or Model Prison, Cuba’s most dreaded pre-revolutionary prison, using my iPhone as a torch and trying not to slip on wooden planks and rubble. After squeezing up a rusty spiral staircase, I emerged atop a tower at the center of an enormous circular cell building that resembled a tropical Colosseum, where a single guard would once monitor more than 1,000 prisoners at a time.The scale was bewildering — it was one of four 1931 jail structures in the Model Prison, rising like sinister missile silos, with a mess hall at their center. Just as bewildering: the fact that nobody would stop me climbing five stories without handrails into cells with a 50-foot drop onto concrete. (One can only marvel at Cuban liability laws, or the lack thereof.) The whiff of danger helped bring the disturbing past of the Presidio, which functioned from the late 1920s to 1967, to vivid life. A small museum was filled with startling photos of the prison’s brutal inner life, when it was run by wild convict gangs with weapons crafted from iron spikes and nails. But the most striking sight of all came when I entered the former hospital ward, which in the 1950s was reserved for political prisoners. Posted on a wall was a mug shot of its most notorious inmate, Fidel Castro — without a beard.The Presidio was closed a few years after Castro’s victory in 1959, and is now maintained as a shrine to the revolution’s early struggle, with photos of each prisoner over his bed. It’s a tribute to the resilience of the young rebels who — whatever their later faults once they took power — took on the brutal Batista dictatorship at great personal risk. The aura of idealism becomes particularly poignant today, as Cuba’s revolutionary dream has become as battered as the corrugated iron ceiling of the Presidio itself — its gaping views of the sky letting in the beating sun, the tropical rain and chirping green parrots.Still, it’s an uphill battle to attract travelers, since La Isla is today so obscure that even most Cubans know nothing about it. I had only the haziest idea of what I might find there when I turned up at the Havana airport before dawn to catch a propeller plane. A half-hour later, we were banking over the comma-shaped island and landing at its only town, Nueva Gerona. I was relieved to find that La Isla had lost none of its oddity: We were met at the tiny airport by a nurse in white uniform who screened us all for fevers.While it’s no longer true to say that Havana is “stuck in the 1950s,” an argument can be made for La Isla — perhaps the 1850s. There are no streetlights in Nueva Gerona, no buildings taller than two stories, and almost the only traffic is horse-and-buggy. On its sleepy pedestrian boulevard, the main cultural attraction is a map of Cuba made from rusty horseshoes. At dusk, teenagers make out in the Park of the Heroic Guerrilla, while older couples promenade arm in arm and take romantic carriage rides holding hands. After dark, everyone converges on the boulevard to hear live salsa and dance, the only concession to the 21st century being a decent sound system.I checked into a casa particular, a private guesthouse, a cozy home decorated with ceramic fish and boasting a sunny billiards room. It was run by a voluble woman named Diami, who whipped up fortifying breakfasts of sweet black coffee, farm eggs and chunks of mango, the most succulent of the tropical fruits that grow like weeds on the fertile island. (“We call these American mangoes because they are plump and red,” she deadpanned.) The islanders spoke with cheery resignation about being forgotten by the world. “We suffer from double insularity,” a wiry, chain-smoking poet named Tony Ramírez said excitedly, when I met him at one of the few restaurants, El Galeón (which, as its name suggests, was shaped like a galleon). “We feel very far from the rest of Cuba, which is already cut off from the world.” Tony drew inspiration for his writing from being in un mundo aparte, a world apart, he said, but worried about the island’s vulnerability: “Communications are a problem. One puff of wind, let alone a cyclone, and we’re on our own.”On this island of broken dreams, the ruins of the revolutionary schools of the 1980s litter the landscape like giant Lego blocks. Castro traveled here to personally inaugurate the idealistic education program in 1978 and change the name of the Isle of Pines to Isle of Youth — which has a Communist Utopian ring but also evokes the mad quest of Ponce de León for the Fountain of Youth. (Confusingly, islanders are still called Pineros in Cuba.) Within a decade there were 61 schools on the island serving 35,000 students, mostly from Africa. After the Soviet Union crumbled, funding was cut and the students vanished as if they had never been here. A 2008 hurricane did the rest by gutting the schools.Although most of the Soviet-style structures are in poetic decay, three still function for locals. We called in at Escuela No. 8, the Clara Zetkin School, named after a German Marxist theorist and now filled with island children. The walls are still decorated with a Cold War mural, the Cuban version of “if you see something, say something”: A giant eye hovers over a map of the island with an illustrated list of dangers that pupils should report, including “enemy aircraft,” “enemy parachutists” and “dead animals.”When Congress reluctantly gave La Isla back to Cuba in 1924, most settlers left in disappointment, but those who stayed are buried in the American Cemetery. I strolled with the bemused taxista Ray through the lonely field in golden light, reading names from overgrown gravestones — one shaped like a tree trunk — and pausing at a gazebo until the mosquitoes drove us out.“As fearful as we are of thousands of Americans going down to Cuba and recreating the mass tourism model that destroyed much of the Caribbean,” he told me in Nueva Gerona, “tourism has to be part of the solution.” (Because it is research-based, the Red Alerta program has been unaffected by recent changes to travel for American citizens, but visits have to be arranged through an authorized travel agency or Ocean Doctor.)Soon we were motoring south with a dive master and a cook. Our first mission was to snorkel off a popular beach called Punto Francés, where two years ago Dr. Guggenheim had seen intact expanses of elkhorn coral, a barometer of reef health. Even an amateur like me could tell that all was not well below the waves. “That is a wonderful example of a reef that is 90 percent dead,” Dr. Guggenheim said with a sigh, as we dried off back on board. There had been some bleaching from climate change, he explained, but the main culprit was overfishing, which led to the coral being slowly covered in slimy green algae. “We treat fish like crops to be harvested,” he said, “but they have important jobs to do in the ecosystem. One of them is grazing on algae, which keeps reefs clean.”Things improved radically when we dove to a remote site named El Reino de la Sahara, the King of the Sahara. Rays of sunlight burst down on reefs that were surging with life like underwater cities, including brilliantly colored sea fans and flamingo tongues. A moray eel patrolled the shallows and there were expanses of thriving elkhorn coral. “That reef was 90 percent healthy, or better,” Dr. Guggenheim rejoiced. “But Cuba is in the balance. It could go either way. The good thing is that it has the legal protection,” he added, noting that 25 percent of Cuba’s waters are protected — a higher percentage than the United States, he said (Castro promoted marine protection after he met Jacques Cousteau in the 1980s and became an avid scuba diver). “But it doesn’t have enforcement.”The air of melancholy left by so many vanished dreams was present even when I decided to climb a remote mountain known as La Loma on my final morning, to get a glimpse of the island’s hard-to-visit south. To get there, I went to meet a farmer-turned-guide Arcadio Castro (no relation), who wore a tattered T-shirt and lived in a marble-floor shack roamed by livestock and piled high with home-bottled mango pulp.By the time we reached the summit, sweat was pouring from us in streams and I was half delirious. The view to the southern nature reserves turned out to be entirely overgrown; Arcadio admitted that he hadn’t taken anyone up here in months. I didn’t mind. It was oddly comforting to see these remote heights being reclaimed by the wild. The island’s man-made hopes have been repeatedly dashed, but hopefully nature will prove resilient.Getting ThereWhere to StayWhere to EatTony Perrottet, the author of “Pagan Holiday,” is working on a book about the Cuban guerrilla war.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS