Instead, a bad acquisition accounted for a large chunk of the loss. In 2011 Jefferies bought Bache, a commodity and futures brokerage firm, to beef up its trading operations. That has not panned out. Both business lines have struggled in recent years, suffering from what Mr. Handler admits are “growth and margin challenges.”In the three months ending in November, the unit contributed $44 million to Jefferies’ top line. That’s just 8 percent of the quarter’s overall revenue. Jefferies is now deciding what to do with Bache and has taken a $60 million charge against its value.The firm’s fixed-income traders had a poor quarter, too. The top line shrank 73 percent, much of it stemming from mark-to-market losses on distressed assets that the bank keeps on its books. The firm also wrote off $52 million in bad debt stemming from the sudden bankruptcy last month of the Danish ship fuel supplier OW Bunker.Meanwhile, investment banking revenue slipped by a quarter. Mr. Handler has insisted that this was all about an industrywide slowdown in deals. There were fears that clients would pull business after a host of allegations leveled at Mr. Kelly, the chief of health care mergers and acquisitions, by his wife in court proceedings.These included rampant abuse of alcohol and illegal drugs, frequenting prostitutes and defecating and urinating in the bedroom. Mr. Handler, along with bankers mentioned in the court filings, took the unusual step of taking drug tests in October to deflect claims of drug use. In November, Christina Kelly said that “a substantial portion” of what appeared in the press was “inaccurate, untrue or hyperbolic.”There may still be some fallout from the affair. Corporate finance mandates and their associated fees can take months to appear — or disappear. For now, though, the firm insists that its regular business is the cause of the financial pain.By ANDREW ROSS SORKINScandalous accusations made against a managing director at the investment bank Jefferies as part of a divorce and custody filing have become the talk of Wall Street.Advertisement