AdvertisementSupported by“Fiddler on the Roof” and “Rothschild & Sons” have a few things in common. Both feature lyrics by Sheldon Harnick and music by Jerry Bock. Both are about a Jewish couple with a lot of children of the same sex. When “Rothschild & Sons” opened on Broadway in 1970 as “The Rothschilds,” the original Broadway production of “Fiddler” was still playing nearby. Both lead actors (Zero Mostel and Hal Linden) won Tony Awards.You cannot fault the York Theater Company’s rich new production of “Rothschild & Sons,” a one-act reimagining that looks absolutely royal in the intimate Theater at St. Peter’s at Citicorp Center: Splendid 18th-century men’s costumes by Carrie Robbins, low-key yet opulent scenic design (palaces versus the Frankfurt ghetto) by James Morgan, assertively nuanced lighting by Kirk Bookman.And it has the dapper Robert Cuccioli as Mayer Rothschild, the German-born founder of his family’s banking dynasty. Broadway audiences have seen Mr. Cuccioli as Javert in “Les Misérables” and as the title characters in “Jekyll & Hyde.” I once saw him in regional theater as an Iago so fascinating that Othello seemed like a supporting character in his own play. Mr. Cuccioli doesn’t disappoint here; if only the robust, ambitious young Mayer, who won a crown prince’s patronage as an imaginative young rare-coins dealer, didn’t grow old so early in the script.Sherman Yellen’s book looks hard for heart and warmth, but this is still the story of a man who decides that the only way to escape oppression is to make lots of money. And the way to get even with powerful people who betray you is by sabotaging their bond offering. Bankers are not particularly fashionable as heroes right now.Jeffrey B. Moss’s direction does find the humor wherever it lurks. Take a look at Mayer’s poor wife (the lovely Glory Crampton) as she announces “It’s a boy.” For the fifth time. And almost everything that Mark Pinter does as various haughty princes. Mayer’s musical number “In My Own Lifetime” comes close to thrilling, and “Everything” is at least rousing, but most of the songs are only pretty. Maybe it’s too much to expect another “Sunrise, Sunset” or “If I Were a Rich Man,” but what’s a musical for?“Rothschild & Sons” runs through Nov. 8 at the Theater at St. Peter’s, 619 Lexington Avenue; 212-935-5820, yorktheatre­.org.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS