My weekly tsk-tsking is typically aimed at subject-verb disagreement, homophone mix-ups, dangling modifiers and other writing peccadilloes.Such missteps can annoy readers and mar the polish of our prose. But those are mostly venial sins; they don’t undercut our journalistic credibility.The problem is not a mystery, nor is the solution. No matter how fast we’re working, we simply must check and double-check people’s names. When time is tightest, focus on the likeliest source of errors — names that are unusual or unfamiliar, including foreign names and those with unorthodox spellings.Look at the corrections we might have averted over just a few days recently if reporters and editors had double-checked such names:•••Corrections, Feb. 2:•••Feb. 5:•••Feb. 6:•••Feb. 8:This week’s grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.•••“It” is singular but has a plural antecedent — “remarks.” Use “them,” or use a singular noun like “comment” or “statement.”•••With “would” in the second part of the condition (the “apodosis”), use the subjunctive in the first part (the “protasis”): “If Mr. Williams were forced to step down, it would be …” Or, for a simple condition that is less hypothetical, use indicative verbs in both parts: “If Mr. Williams is forced to step down, it will be …”•••There were contractions sprinkled through this article, a colloquial style that is not our normal approach in a news story.•••If the quote ends with a question mark, there’s no need for a comma.•••The informal short form “IDs” seemed all right in the headline, but in the story we could have used “cards” or “identification cards” or at least “ID cards.”•••The Times’s stylebook prefers “crematory.”•••The article used two different spellings; “ginkgo” is the dictionary’s preference.•••Hard-charging, olive branch, full-throated, charm offensive — a pileup of journalistic clichés. Nobody in real life talks this way, and we shouldn’t, either.•••We should avoid this use of “grow.” The stylebook says this:•••Don’t omit “that” in a case like this. The stylebook says this:•••The titles of television programs belong in quotation marks. And “crew” is a collective noun; in references to individuals, consider “crew members” or “members of the crew.”•••When Rick Vintage, a founder of the adventurous Dutch wallpaper company NLXL, discovered Ms. Panikanova’s paintings at a gallery in Rome, where she now lives, he knew he wanted to turn her work into wallcoverings: “It gave me goose bumps,” he said.Homophone mix-up. This should be “roll,” of course.•••As the stylebook notes, the plural is “cul-de-sacs.”•••This play on words, beneath a three-column photo of an ice-covered Port of Anchorage, was likely to evoke a groan, not a smile.After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times’s style manual.Advertisement