AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Friday morning. Here’s what we’re watching:• Wells Fargo takes another hit.• What AT&T’s Randall Stephenson said on the stand.• What Takeda has to weigh in its pursuit of Shire.But why has President Trump made the international oil cartel his latest bête noire? One potential reason: It makes life more difficult for many Americans, weighing on the benefits of the Republican tax cuts.The context: OPEC and Russia agreed two years ago to cut — and maintain — oil production caps to bring prices back up in the wake of U.S. shale boom. So far, that strategy has worked:With oil above $73 now, even after Mr. Trump’s tweet, fuel prices are at reaching two-year highs as the U.S. gets into the summer driving season. More importantly, Americans are preparing to spend more on fuel, eating into whatever savings they are expected to receive on average from the tax cuts.AdvertisementAmericans are expected to spend an average of $400 per household more on fuel this year than in 2016, as the rebound in crude prices is reflected in the cost of petrol at the pump. By contrast, middle-income US households will on average gain $930 each from the tax cut bill passed at the end of last year, according to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.AdvertisementAnd Michael Lynch of Strategic Energy & Economic Research had this to say to Bloomberg:“Ninety-eight percent of what politicians say about oil should just be disregarded immediately and this falls in there.”In February, the Justice Department issued demands to AT&T, Verizon and the G.S.M.A., a mobile industry standards-setting group, for information on potential collusion to thwart a technology known as eSIM, said two of the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details are confidential.The technology lets people remotely switch wireless providers without having to insert a new SIM card into a device. AT&T and Verizon face accusations that they colluded with the G.S.M.A. to try to establish standards that would allow them to lock a device to their network even if it had eSIM technology.The investigation was opened about five months ago after at least one device maker and one wireless carrier filed formal complaints with the Justice Department, two of the people said.Representatives for the Justice Department, AT&T, Verizon and the G.S.M.A. declined to comment.— Cecilia KangShares of General Electric jumped nearly 4 percent Friday after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and reaffirmed its guidance for the year.Though G.E. reported a first-quarter loss on Friday, there were also signs that the struggling industrial giant is beginning to stabilize its business.AdvertisementG.E.’s big power-generator division continues to drag down the company’s overall performance, and it is still burdened with financial liabilities that linger from the conglomerate’s pared-back finance arm, GE Capital.But G.E.’s other major industrial divisions, led by aviation and health care, delivered solid results in the quarter. That should provide some assurance to investors as the company charts a future dependent on its industrial lines.Especially heartening for investors, G.E. reaffirmed its profit outlook for the year, predicting earnings per share of $1 to $1.07, though likely at the lower end of that range. Analysts had been skeptical that G.E. could do that well. The average analysts’ forecast for the year was 95 cents a share, as compiled by Thomson Reuters.To recap: Wells Fargo has already paid $185 million over its fake accounts scandal and set aside $4.25 billion for liabilities tied to other infractions. And the Fed has prevented the bank from expanding its balance sheet.Yes, the upcoming $1 billion fine is the most stringent bank penalty imposed by the Trump administration to date. (The C.F.P.B., under pressure from Mick Mulvaney to go easier on financial firms, is involved here.)But Mr. Stewart writes, “At this point it’s hard to imagine what more Wells Fargo can do (or how much more it can spend) to make amends.”AdvertisementThat’s the contention of the reporter Jonathan Greenberg, who, as a Forbes reporter in 1984, spoke with “John Barron” about Donald Trump’s net worth. Mr. Barron — a now well-known alter ego of the real estate executive — contended that Mr. Trump had bought out most of his father’s stake in their business.Over time I have learned that he should not have been on the first three Forbes 400 lists at all. In our first-ever list, in 1982, we included him at $100 million, but Trump was actually worth roughly $5 million — a paltry sum by the standards of his super-monied peers — as a spate of government reports and books showed only much later.Mr. Greenberg writes that the White House and the Trump Organization declined to comment.The Justice Department, which wants to block the deal, argued that AT&T is different because it’s also a broadband internet provider, and that relations with Silicon Valley are chummier than Mr. Stephenson asserts.A big takeover would give Takeda more scale — the combined company would have some $30 billion in annual sales — and a bigger international footprint. But it would also be the company’s biggest takeover by far, and perhaps too expensive.The Japanese drug maker said it intended to maintain its credit rating, which could be difficult if it bids too high — or is pressured to do so by yet another suitor.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementWith its $16 trillion economy and reputation for tough negotiating, the E.U. could have been the immovable object in President Trump’s trade fight. But that is looking less likely, Peter Eavis writes.Among the lessons if the E.U. concedes: The U.S.’s large trade deficits can give it leverage.AdvertisementThe sometimes controversial data consultant cut its teeth working for the Pentagon and the C.I.A. Now it’s hoping that its latest product will attract more commercial clients.The company needs to figure out how to be rewarded on Wall Street without creeping out Main Street. It might not be possible. For all of Palantir’s professed concern for individuals’ privacy, the single most important safeguard against abuse is the one it’s trying desperately to reduce through automation: human judgment.Victor Orlovski, Fort Ross’s founder and managing partner, told Michael that the current state of U.S.-Russian political relations should not affect his firm’s ability to operate. “The nature of start-ups is all about risk,” he said. “There is a political tension, but not when you’re talking to start-ups.”The tech flyaroundAdvertisementThe only potential obstacle: Arturo Di Modica, the artist who made the bull, doesn’t want it moved.AdvertisementAn earlier version of this article, relying on information in a Bloomberg report, misstated the amount of Sumner Redstone’s compensation that a court ruled CBS shareholders could challenge. It is less than $4 million, not more than $13 million.Go to Home Page »