AdvertisementOn New Year's Day, mass transit mavens, subway aficionados and curious New Yorkers flocked to the Upper East Side of Manhattan to be among the first to ride on the newly inaugurated Second Avenue subway line and to marvel at its artful stations.Updated, 9:30 a.m.Good morning on this misty Tuesday.For many on the Upper East Side, today is the first of many shorter trips to work. Residents we spoke to said they could save anywhere from five minutes to more than an hour each day.So what is a time-starved New Yorker to do with those precious extra minutes in the morning?“Sleep, obviously” said Emily Kuo, 33, who will save five or 10 minutes in the morning. “One more snooze.’’AdvertisementRead more. Relax more. Make more money through a side hustle. All are on the agenda for Megan Carroll, a 25-year-old social media strategist, who will drastically cut down the time she spends commuting.Advertisement“With 40 minutes a day, I could change the world,” she said. “But I’ll probably go to the gym.”Mr. Rudin, who takes the subway to work, wasn’t planning on changing his morning routine.This week, trains on the Second Avenue subway are running from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Overnight service is set to begin on Monday.Are you commuting on the Second Avenue subway? Or the (presumably) less-crowded Lexington Avenue line? How did it feel today? Tell us about it in the comments.Here’s what else is happening:Mist and drizzle in the morning will gradually turn into a rainy afternoon. Couple that with a high of 45 and the wind we’re expecting, and it’ll be enough to make you wish you had never returned from vacation.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Advertisement“Rest assured,” he said, “I’m not driving the train.”It was a joke.But it wouldn’t have been the first time that a politician had taken it upon himself to operate a subway train.AdvertisementHe was supposed to turn over the controls to a train operator, but moving the train was just too enticing. The mayor stayed at the helm from City Hall all the way to 103rd Street.He wasn’t the most skilled operator.The trip included an abrupt stop, which threw passengers forward, and warnings of “slower here — slow-er!” and “ea-sy for the curve” as he barreled down the tracks.At one point, the mayor was asked, “Don’t you want the motorman to take hold?”“No, sir!” the mayor said. “I’m running this train!”See More »Go to Home Page »