AdvertisementGETTYSBURG, Pa. — Politicians like to say they cannot be bought.But this weekend, here amid the rolling Civil War battlefields and the kitschy souvenir shops, anyone can buy a politician — a president no less — deftly shaped by skilled manipulators of wax and other polymers.“Franklin Pierce has the wrong color hair,” said Bruce Larson, a professor of political science at Gettysburg College, who had come to case the collection on a boreal winter day.“And Taft, to me, looks too thin,” said John Tormey III, an entertainment lawyer who had driven from New York, and was nevertheless planning to bid on a figure for his home office. “I’ve already been told that if I take back more than one wax figure, the locks on my house will be changed.”AdvertisementWax figures are lined up, numbered (according to their auction lots, not their place in history) and lit partly from behind, with barely concealed fluorescent lights. There is Thomas Jefferson, whose regal jacket does not hide the screw where his hand should be, and Abraham Lincoln, sitting stiffly in his chair. See a pale-looking Jimmy Carter, with a smile or a grimace, and a Bill Clinton looking almost cherubic.AdvertisementThey are not perfect, like the men they are (or were). But they are memorable. So, with the variously lifelike sculptures up for grabs, the question is: Who wants whom?“We’re a divided country,” said Randy Dickensheets, an auctioneer, who, with practiced optimism, predicted a bidding war over Abraham Lincoln and prices of at least $1,000 to $5,000 for the other presidents. “These guys always meant to do well for our country, so they do all have people who do like them.”Even Millard Fillmore, Mr. Dickensheets added, referring to the much maligned 13th president.The museum also has a room of first ladies in painstakingly reproduced inaugural gowns who are, for some reason, about a third of the size of their husbands.“I think it’s a function of space,” said Max Felty, who has owned the museum since 2008, but decided to close it after several years of anemic attendance and no noticeable lift from a roller-coaster of a presidential campaign.“We sort of thought, ‘If it’s not going to be this year, it’s not going to be any year,’” Mr. Felty said. Also being sold are photographs and other memorabilia.The museum, which sits between the downtown and the national military park, was founded in 1957 as something of a sideshow for Gettysburg’s battlefields and a celebration of the fact that Dwight D. Eisenhower, the 34th president, had a home here. A handbill advertising its opening said viewers would see the presidents as they had appeared in life: “the color of their eyes, the color of their hair, the texture of their skin.”AdvertisementThe collection was expanded and tweaked over the years. Some changes were small — in 1963, according to one receipt seen by Mr. Felty, the museum spent $27 for improvements like repainting and changing the eyelashes of Mr. Truman. Some were bigger, like 1964, when the museum spent $300 for a President Lyndon B. Johnson, who became president after John F. Kennedy was assassinated.In those years, business was brisk — Mr. Felty said the museum received about 100,000 visitors a year in the 1960s and 1970s — which dropped to about 60,000 visitors a year in 1985, and was about 11,000 visitors, paying $7.50 per adult, by last year. Other specialized wax museums, like the Movieland Museum in Buena Park, Calif., or the American Civil War Wax museum here, have also closed or auctioned off their collections over the years, although the world’s most famous, and much flashier, wax museum — Madame Tussauds — is still drawing a crowd.Some visitors at a recent auction preview came to remember. “It was real creepy at night, because it was only you,” said Joyce Coulter, 56, who worked there during the 1970s, adding that President Lyndon B. Johnson had the most unsettling eyes. Laurie Fertitta came because she said her father, Charles Sponsler, worked on many of the early figures. From her purse, she pulled out a hand that he had made (no, not Jefferson’s).In recent years, the museum became a tourism relic, with modern presidents. Barack Obama — whose face seems broader here than in real life — is presented in an Eisenhower-era display. A button starts a presentation in which each figure is lit up and a disembodied voice says a few words about their history, with excerpts from their own speeches. The first ladies — like Hillary Clinton, looking almost Barbie-like, and Michelle Obama, in her white inaugural ball gown, do not speak.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“A static museum does not compete with computerized museums,” James Kralik, 73, a retired county sheriff who owns a handful of small museums here, including a Civil War diorama and the Lincoln Train Museum, said with a sigh, adding that times are getting harder for some of his museums, too.Mr. Kralik was not planning to bid on the wax figures, because he already had some. He recycled a Richard M. Nixon, from a different museum, as a Union soldier in his diorama. And a disused Harry S. Truman has a new life, as an anonymous companion of Abraham Lincoln, in his train museum.“It’s a little frightening,” Ms. Yates said, “and I want to add it to my haunted attractions.”For Gene Eyler, 69, the auction offered a chance to reconnect — in a sense — with distant relatives. Holding 19 pages of genealogy records, Mr. Eyler explained that he was the third cousin of the first husband of Woodrow Wilson’s second wife, Edith Bolling Galt Wilson. He hoped to buy President Wilson, Mrs. Wilson and Mr. Wilson’s first wife, Ellen Axson Wilson, and donate them to a museum.Advertisement“I was hoping maybe Edith would be a little bit better,” Mr. Eyler said, although he was undeterred. And President Wilson, he added, did not look quite right.“Maybe the glasses are too new,” Mr. Eyler said. “Maybe that’s what it is.”Other presidential relatives, however, are not as interested.“I don’t know if I have a good place for a large wax figure, and of course, President Taft was a pretty large man,” Bob Taft, the former governor of Ohio and the great-grandson of William Howard Taft, said in a phone interview.“I have a bobblehead of William Howard Taft from the Washington Nationals baseball team,” Mr. Taft added. “That’s enough for me to have in my office.”Go to Home Page »