AdvertisementSupported byArt ReviewTo hazards like icecap cracks, nuclear leaks and rising seas, add another environmental threat: language fallout. Never has verbiage, generated by advertising, the entertainment industry and mouthy politicians, been so present and pervasive in everyday life, seeping from smartphones, spewing from flat screens. And few artists have more cannily predicted and reflected, not to mention contributed to, this phenomenon than Raymond Pettibon, whose career retrospective, with more than 700 annotated drawings and paintings, fills three floors and the lobby of the New Museum.Some of these texts seem to be lifted from B-movie scripts, others from classical literature, still others from the sort of reactive interior rants that some of us drop into unguarded subway moments. Over all, Mr. Pettibon’s art has the prickly, manic feel of such rants, and like them, it rarely achieves smooth resolution. Words and pictures are often out of logical sync. He titles many pieces “No Title,” followed by a bit of quoted text. Only in his most overtly political work do all components align and fuse, defining and sharpening one another.And Mr. Pettibon is, with gratifying regularity, a sharp political critic. It is the most interesting thing about him. His targets can be quite specific: the drug-wrecked hippie movement of the 1960s, the American war in Iraq. Yet his entire output, despite interludes of lyricism and nostalgia, and a running strain of stand-up humor, is a steady indictment of American culture as he has lived it over the past 60 years.They set out themes that would follow him through his career: surfers, athletes, landscapes, war scenes, television stars. And the drawings would be pure juvenilia, were it not for later changes he made: In the mid-2000s, he added written texts. A crayon image of Nazi fighter planes now has a quotation from Marcel Proust. (“They are innocent enough as long as they are regarded as mere toys.”) A pencil-drawn cowboy is encased in a conspiracy-theory account of the John F. Kennedy assassination. Over the head of a little figure wearing a sombrero is a one-line equivalent of men’s room graffiti.With the additions, the drawings suddenly become complicated and a lot to take in. And they’re just the beginning of the show. In 1999 a traveling Pettibon survey came to the Drawing Center in SoHo. It had hundreds of pieces installed in one big room, and felt more than substantial. This retrospective, larger still, is exhaustingly huge. To ease matters, and make viewing more than a browse, the New Museum’s curators, Gary Carrion-Murayari and Massimiliano Gioni, have grouped material on all three floors by theme rather than by date.One section of the second floor is given over to what are identified as self-portraits. A few from the 1990s seem to fit the conventional description. They’re headshot sketches of a soulful guy: He wrinkles his brow, sheds a tear, laments his loneliness. (“I’m not fin de siècle enough for her!”) Other images — of a bodybuilder, of a puppet with wings — are less easy to slot. And then there are alter egos as self-portraits, like the animated clay figure Gumby, remembered from childhood television.In Mr. Pettibon’s hands, Gumby’s days of innocence are long over. He is now a moral shape-shifter: in one drawing, a priapic imp; in another, a towering predator; in yet another, a bantamweight pugilist facing off with a giant volume of James Joyce, whom Mr. Pettibon quotes in his work.The third floor takes the artist back to the very beginning of his career, 1978. Eager to find an audience for the kind of art he was making, which no gallery at the time would touch, he assembled his first zine, called Captive Chains. Filled with images adapted from film noir, soft porn, newspapers and comics, it was in a clean, easy-to-reproduce graphic style, as was the work that soon followed, including a series built around images of the cult leader and murderer Charles Manson and Flower Power gone to rot. These pictures were hits, and are still his most widely known. They’re deeply creepy, beyond dystopian.In the early 1990s, he had the art world’s attention, and the work changed. Possibly the shift from a zine format to gallery display explains this. He loosened his line, upped his scale, eased off on irony and moved toward painting. He did a spectacular series of surfing pictures, all big blue waves, and another of interiors of Gothic cathedrals. In both, figures are reduced to specks or eliminated. Texts are so small as to be barely visible. Experimentation with color and line is the story here, and in the retrospective, it comes as a relief: finally art that invites maximum looking and requires minimum reading.And the history keeps coming. Richard M. Nixon, as a five-o’clock-shadowed Savonarola, takes a hit. So does a chatty, cheerful Ronald Reagan. And George W. Bush, preening in Top Gun gear and justifying his war to no one in particular. And the war gets full-color special-effects treatment in scenes of flaming trucks, burning bodies and flag-draped coffins stacked up like Christmas gifts. The mordant but distanced wit characteristic of this artist breaks down here, and in the images that round out the section: a melting Lady Liberty, a lynching, a mushroom cloud, a dollar sign, and a sheet of paper with the block-lettered phrase “Paint the All Unutterable.”I take the phrase as an instruction, a self-command. And in his political work, Mr. Pettibon has always followed it. I hope he continues to. When the governing model of democratic expression means shouting down and silencing the opposition, we’re going to need all the critical words — and images — at high volume that we can get.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS