AdvertisementSupported byMediatorAbove all else, the success of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign was made possible by the media environment in which it was spawned, and his canny ability to exploit it. Now that same environment could very well be the thing that destroys it.A forceful personality with an unparalleled reality-television pedigree, Mr. Trump was perfectly primed to take advantage of the increasingly happy marriage between the news and entertainment sides of the media business — becoming a textbook candidate for the modern infotainment era of which he was already a product.It is only fitting that it was not an investigative report from the likes of NBC News that is posing the biggest threat yet to his candidacy, but a bit of raw — and, yes, deplorable — video leaked from the editing bays of a celebrity entertainment program, “Access Hollywood.”And it is rich symbolism that the Bush family member who helped enable the most severe political damage to Mr. Trump is the “Access” host Billy Bush, not his cousin Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, who was as ill suited for today’s media environment as Mr. Trump was tailor made for it.Mr. Bush — the former governor, that is — approached his campaign as if it would be operating in a normal political news environment, where at least some of the focus would be on economic and educational proposals, foreign policy plans and those words that were once so revered in Republican politics, “values” and “character.”But Mr. Trump came at it with a new philosophy: Give them a big, messy show with a regular stream of action, and they will come with their cameras and won’t turn them off. Jeb Bush and his college affordability plan never stood a chance.By then it was a proven formula for Mr. Trump.He reached the highest level of electoral politics not through legislative or executive accomplishment but through a series of video moments that showcased a can’t-look-away personality as much as anything he achieved in business.Those moments span more than three decades, and the trail they leave on YouTube follows the media’s evolution to its current discombobulated state.So it was not surprising that such a deep well of incredulity rose up when Mr. Trump emerged as a candidate for the Reform Party’s presidential nomination in 1999. “Is it Campaign 2000 or ‘Entertainment Tonight’?” Howard Kurtz, then the host of “Reliable Sources” on CNN, asked in reference to the media attention to Mr. Trump. Still, Mr. Trump made it all the way to the political proving ground of Tim Russert’s “Meet the Press,” before his bid fell apart a few months later.Yet as we know now, nothing did more to set up Mr. Trump for 2016 presidential politics than his own TV show, “The Apprentice,” which became a hit during its first season, in 2004. Its huge ratings success made Mr. Trump an even more coveted guest on entertainment shows, like “Access Hollywood” and “Late Show With David Letterman,” and mainstream news programs, which were ever more desperate for ratings and, therefore, ever more willing to embrace celebrities.He had no policy expertise and was not a historian, but he offered something more compelling for news producers: ratings, which is the only thing that can explain all the coverage he later received for his news conferences questioning President Obama’s citizenship.Mr. Trump took two other clear lessons away from “The Apprentice”: Television audiences will reward anything that at least looks like authenticity. And the best way to hold an audience is to give it a steady stream of drama, with compelling plotlines that continually surprise.But as the general election campaign has ground on, his copious video and audio content has buried him. In effect, it has become the equivalent of a senator’s voting record.Of course, his banter with Billy Bush during his “Access Hollywood” appearance is far worse. The Washington Post was the first to expose the tape because an “Access Hollywood” report was delayed, pushing back one that NBC News was preparing to run immediately afterward. Over the weekend, some political commentators wondered why NBC News didn’t take the lead anyway.But what’s the difference? It all leads to the same place. The question for Mr. Trump is whether that place is the end of the road.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS