AdvertisementSupported byWordplaySUNDAY PUZZLE — Everyone has a special purpose in life, as Steve Martin was told in the movie “The Jerk,” and crossword constructors are born to recognize odd patterns in words and phrases, then point them out for our entertainment.Of course, it’s helpful if you know a lot about computer programming and can use that to help find these patterns, as Matt Ginsberg does, but the overall impressiveness of today’s theme is not dulled by whether he had mechanical help. We’ve all seen “words inside other words” themes, but I congratulate Mr. Ginsberg on being eco-friendly and using up 100 percent of the theme phrases.Still not sure what’s going on? Let’s take a closer look at the theme.If you’ve never tried a cryptic crossword puzzle but you were able to solve today’s grid, keep an open mind the next time a cryptic crossword comes up. Today’s theme clues were cryptic-like, so if you figured this out, you can figure out a cryptic crossword.Mr. Ginsberg offers us a whopping 11 theme entries in his grid, and there’s a bt of cruciverbal math involved. The key is to separate the circled squares from the uncircled ones in each theme entry, and then add them back together to form the entire theme phrase.Let’s look at 34A as an example. The clue is:“Urban woe + squirms = pool accessory”The entry as a whole is SWIM GOGGLES, the pool accessory. Now let’s dissect that. The circled letters in SWIM GOGGLES spell out SMOG, the “Urban woe,” and the rest of the letters in the phrase spell out WIGGLES, or “squirms.”Now let’s put that all together:SMOG + WIGGLES = SWIM GOGGLESMr. Ginsberg goes into detail about the fill in his puzzle below, so I will leave that to him.■ 6A: When you see a question mark at the end of a clue, remember to run all the possible meanings of the clue words through your brain. Today, “Base men?” does not refer to baseball; it refers to men whose baser instincts come out, and those men are CADS.■ 28A: Think soda, not music. “New pop of 1924” refers to when NEHI soda (or pop) made its way to market and, eventually, into M*A*S*H’s Radar O’Reilly’s heart.■ 40A: With the question mark, “Halters?” refers to people who say “Halt!”, not the shirts. The answer is SENTRIES.■ 130A: “The time of Nick?” refers to the Nickelodeon channel Nick at NITE.■ 17D: Ice FLOES are the “Results of icy breakups?” today.About the construction, this puzzle has been a long time in the making, going through a variety of revisions since I first submitted it (and Will rejected it) in February. He seemed to think it had promise, but didn’t like my selection of theme entries. So I found a new set of theme entries and, before rebuilding the whole puzzle, asked if they were better. They were.So I built a couple of very different versions of the puzzle and didn’t clue them, instead asking Will which he preferred. As I clued the one he preferred, I discovered that while the fill was reasonably clean, it had so many Spanish entries that it might as well be a Spanish puzzle! So even though Will had accepted it, I changed it around quite a bit (there is still quite a bit of Spanish in it), and Will took the modified version.I hope everyone enjoyed the puzzle!AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS