For over a century, this crenellated fortress has attracted European intellectuals and loyal families drawn to its Old World charm and resolute lack of sleek amenities.What the Waldhaus provides that plusher hotels lack is personalized service. At full capacity, 240 guests are looked after by a staff of 145 — some of whom, according to the bedside circular Waldhaus News, have been there for decades. Such attention is reciprocated by exceptional loyalty: Parents bring their children, who eventually bring their children. Two families, one Swiss and another German, have been coming for seven generations, since the 1920s. The Austrian diplomat Maximilian Maria Joseph von Löwenthal-Chlumecky was so enamored of the place that he cumulatively spent more than six years here in the 1970s and 1980s.The French director Olivier Assayas (“Summer Hours”) — first urged to visit the hotel a decade ago by his friends Serge Toubiana, director of the Cinémathèque Française, and his partner, the novelist Emmanuèle Bernheim — is among the latest to be bewitched by the hotel’s Helvetic charm. “The Waldhaus is like a jewel that’s been preserved,” he says. “It exists in some kind of time warp. It’s the kind of hotel you read about in novels.”Most family-owned establishments don’t make it to a second generation, much less a fifth. But at the Waldhaus, each has watched the previous one make sacrifices to continue the business, which has survived the Great Depression and two world wars. Felix Dietrich, one of the hotel’s genial fourth-generation patriarchs, is the son of a baker who married into what he quickly realized would be a lifetime commitment. As he explained to me over a beer in the wood-paneled library where a portrait of Nietzsche gazes over the wooden carrels: “This family enterprise is not a milk cow. The money that we earn has to return to the hotel.”The trick, says his 34-year-old son Patrick, is to keep the past and present in balance: to honor what is august and unique about the Waldhaus without being stuffy or precious. Most guests would prefer that nothing change, and their devotion depends on the fact that nothing does. Room keys are still actual keys, with a heavy metal fob. Talking on cellphones is forbidden in common areas. The hotel spa is being expanded, but not much can be done to make the guest-room floor corridors, long as railroad box cars, more efficient to heat.For the last three decades, the Waldhaus has hosted a Nietzsche conference, usually in September; the owners are proud of the hotel’s other German literary connections, too. What other enterprise would boast on its website that the Marxist social theorist Theodor Adorno was a guest? (He visited every year between 1955 and 1966.) Two operas have been staged in the tennis courts (“Anna Bolena” and “Le Nozze di Figaro”), and numerous pianists — Rudolf Serkin, Dinu Lipatti, Andras Schiff — have given concerts in the festival hall, which doubles as the dining room. In 2008, the Swiss theater director Christoph Marthaler devised a play for the hotel’s centenary in which actors portrayed the regular guests, reciting poetry to each other and snoozing in the armchairs in the lounge.In the evenings, string trios accompany the cocktail hour, followed by dinner and sometimes entertainment: a talk about the Engadine by a 94-year-old native of St. Moritz, say, or a lecture by the historian Fritz Stern, a “dear guest” since the 1970s. “The owners operate the hotel as if it’s not just a hotel,” Assayas said. “It’s the soul of the area.”