AdvertisementHe’s seen the Ringling circus more than 100 times, starting when he was 6 and lived in Brooklyn. His parents took him to Madison Square Garden. Many years he went three or four times, sitting in different sections to get a fresh angle on the acts. “I’d sit on the bottom, then I’d sit on the top, then I’d sit on the end,” he said. “Wherever I sat, it was amazing.”But there are fewer people around who are captivated by lion tamers and wire walkers. Costs are rising — Ringling’s two troupes, known as the Blue Unit and the Red Unit, rumble from city to city on mile-long trains. And ticket sales are flagging. Opposition from animal rights groups led to the erasure of the show’s signature elephants last year.Given those challenges, Ringling will play four more months, including a run in Brooklyn starting in late February. It will hold its final performance on May 21 at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y., on Long Island, before lapsing into memory.AdvertisementFor such a nomadic operation, Ringling has an elongated history with New York, stretching back to that indelible huckster, P. T. Barnum. Born in Connecticut in 1810, he moved to New York in 1834 and was soon pitching preposterous hoaxes. The first was Joice Heth, a blind slave who was supposedly the 161-year-old nursemaid of George Washington. New Yorkers paid to listen to her fanciful stories about young George.AdvertisementOne night in 1884, P. T. Barnum paraded 21 circus elephants, including the storied Jumbo, and 17 camels across the Brooklyn Bridge to prove its strength, which made for great publicity for the circus.Once the Ringling brothers, who had their own circus, bought the Barnum and Bailey circus and merged them, the first combined performance was in 1919 at Madison Square Garden.Those were other days, and these days, longtime circus fans in and around the city have been feeling bereft.Mr. Yodice, 70, is a retired manager for a textile company, who now lives in Queens. His parents did not drive, and in the early 1950s, entertainment options were scarce. So the family rode the subway to see the circus year after year. Two circus experiences altered the itinerary of his days. In 1959, when he was 13, he again saw the circus. The next year, the Cecil B. De Mille circus movie, “The Greatest Show on Earth,” was re-released and he saw that.The combination unlocked something in him. He began building teeny cardboard replicas of the Ringling circus. In the 1970s, he increased his ambitions. He undertook the creation of a scale model of the circus at the Madison Square Garden that existed on 49th Street. He’s still working on it.The basement level is finished, with the sideshow and the menagerie quarters. Much remains to do on the main floor. He has the big parade of floats and performers done and the trapeze rigging up, but needs to make all the acts. Some 10,000 seats are in place, though they have to be painted. The model fills a four-foot-by-eight-foot board.AdvertisementRight now, it is packed away because there is no room in his hopelessly clogged basement. But he keeps going on the unfinished portions.He has a ticket to Ringling’s final sold-out show, for which he paid six times as much as the list price. After the show, then what?“I don’t know,” he said. “Like I told my buddies, I can clean out my basement, put up my model and go down there and look at it and imagine I’m really there. It sounds crazy, but that’s what I’ll have to do. Live off my imagination.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.His third date with the woman he married three years ago was to the Ringling show. Its purpose was to test her circus fandom. It would have been ideal if she loved it. It would have been acceptable if she at least tolerated it. She tolerated it.Mr. Payne has gotten to know many circus performers. He recalls once chatting idly with the wife of the Human Cannonball when she dropped into the conversation that her husband was going to dial up the act by lighting himself on fire before being fired from the cannon. “I’ll never understand the man who is the Human Cannonball,” Mr. Payne said.When he heard of Ringling’s end, he said, “I cried like a baby.”“I know we’re mortal and we have a life span,” he said. “I buried my mother. I buried my father. I buried my best friend. But to me, the circus has always been the elixir of youth. When I visit the circus, I’m 5 years old again and I have no life span. That immortality has been destroyed.”Don Horowitz was on his way to Wisconsin, but he pulled off the road to talk circus devotion. Mr. Horowitz, 61, is an owner of a greenhouse and flower shop in East Hampton, N.Y., on Long Island. He first saw the Ringling show in New York when he was 8, and fell in love with its circumscribed world. By now, he has seen it hundreds of times. For years, he took vacation time in January and drove to Florida to watch the first show of the new season.His Ringling friends are so numerous they include cooks in the Pie Car, the dining car for the performers.AdvertisementIn 2013, along with the trainmaster and his wife, he bought the red stone mansion in Baraboo once owned by Al Ringling to preserve it as a place for tours. A bed-and-breakfast will open there by this summer.With Ringling shutting down, he said: “I’ll devote more time to keeping the name alive up in Baraboo. What else can I do?”As it happens, Johnathan Lee Iverson, the ringmaster of the Blue Unit since 1999, was born in New York. When not on the road — about a month a year — he lives on the Upper West Side. He sings and introduces the acts, his favorite words being the first ones he utters, “Ladies and gentlemen, children of all ages…” because, as he put it, “Nothing happens until I say those words.”He is sad, considering the circus “the last pure magic in the world,” but feels he has been fortunate. “More people have heard my voice live than most of the big pop singers today,” he said. “People have grown up on my voice. How can I have any animosity?”What’s next for him? “I’m hustling,” he said. “The résumé and the portfolio are out there. One of my ultimate goals is to have a TV talk show and a show on the radio. I like to run my mouth.”And of course the show has to go on until May comes and its future stops. “When we get to Nassau Coliseum and pack it all up,” he said, “I’m thinking we’ll go off almost like a myth. We’ll be a whisper.”Go to Home Page »