AdvertisementSupported byDuring the administration of President Barack Obama, attorneys general from Republican states developed a powerful tool: They teamed up dozens of times to sue the federal government to block environmental initiatives.Now, Democrats are using the same playbook to fight the Trump administration.Blue-state attorneys general have filed more than two dozen environmental lawsuits against the Trump administration since January 2017, and the victories are piling up. This month, a court said the Environmental Protection Agency had broken the law by delaying smog protections. In February, states forced the Department of Energy to enact efficiency standards for household appliances. And in two different decisions in the past year, courts thwarted the administration’s attempts to delay regulations on emissions by the oil and gas industry.Mr. Woods recalled that, when pursuing such cases with fellow state attorneys general, he was not even sure of some colleagues’ party affiliations. “Today everyone has it branded on their forehead, like a scarlet letter,” he said.The attorneys general fighting the Trump administration have a backer in Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York. Mr. Bloomberg has contributed $6 million to cover the salaries of university law fellows willing to work for states on lawsuits, investigations, public records requests and other measures to oppose the administration’s environmental policies.Democratic state attorneys have worked together to fight the administration’s rollback of school lending laws, to defend the Affordable Care Act and to stop the construction of a border wall. But the most consistent victories have been on the environment, and the attorneys say that more actions are on the way.“Who would have thunk that little old West Virginia” would end up leading such a coalition, he said, “on some of the most important regulatory fights of our day?” Describing it as a victory over regulatory overreach, he said: “That was President Obama’s top domestic initiative, and we stopped it in its tracks.”Mr. Morrissey noted that attorneys general still do collaborate on some issues in a bipartisan way, citing in particular their work to sue opioid manufacturers. He is critical, though, of the current crop of Democrats’ lawsuits.“This seems like pure politics on the other side,” he said. “The attorney general doesn’t get to challenge things that he just doesn’t like.”But Maura Healey, the attorney general of Massachusetts, said that following the proper rule-making procedures was important because doing so prevents arbitrary or capricious regulation. “I don’t care what party you’re a part of,” she said. Doing otherwise “flouts the law.”Officials at the E.P.A. and Energy Department did not respond to requests for comment.Mr. Hornbuckle pointed to Republican legal victories against the Obama administration, such as the case against the Clean Power Plan, and said, “The Justice Department will continue to defend the rightful prerogative of federal agencies to appropriately review and reconsider the costs and benefits of regulations adopted in previous administrations. This includes defending agency decisions to place implementation of existing regulations on hold while they are under review.”There are some Trump supporters (as well as a few critics) who say that what appears to be haste or carelessness on the part of the administration might actually be strategy. With each major announcement of a rule rollback, the Trump administration reinforces its message that it is cutting regulatory burdens on industry — a message that resonates with its donors and voters. Even if courts later find against the administration, that message was already sent.Could the days of widespread bipartisanship return? Mr. Woods said it was useless to ask the question, and he made his case by drawing a comparison with the intrusion of technology in our lives. “I yearn for the days when you weren’t tied to your cellphone,” he said. “It was a lot simpler, and a lot more pure.” But, he added: “Those days are over.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS