AdvertisementThose distinctions may add up to a public relations victory for the blockbuster factory responsible for “The Avengers” and the rest of the $13 billion Marvel Cinematic Universe, but it’s a mixed one — to count the film’s racial milestones is to acknowledge the homogeneity of its predecessors. (There have been 17, since we’re counting.)“Black Panther” is also, of course, a shrewd bet on the social and economic muscle of black filmgoers. Mr. Coogler’s film, based on an unsung 1960s creation of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, has inspired a level of anticipation that wildly exceeds the name recognition of its title character — owing, in part, to pent-up demand for a megabudget movie devoted to black life.AdvertisementThe best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementTaking part in the discussion were Mr. Coogler; Chadwick Boseman, who plays T’Challa, a.k.a. Black Panther, king of the fictional African nation of Wakanda; Lupita Nyong’o (Nakia, a Wakandan spy and T’Challa’s love interest); Michael B. Jordan (Erik Killmonger, an African-American adversary of Black Panther’s); Danai Gurira (Okoye, Wakanda’s greatest warrior); and Kevin Feige, a producer of “Black Panther” and president of Marvel Studios. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.I read a funny tweet the other day that said this movie is basically reparations.[Rolling laughter]Kevin, there’s long been this idea in Hollywood that movies with black casts don’t perform well internationally. Does that end with “Black Panther”?AdvertisementFor the actors, what did joining this film mean to you and how did it feel different from other movies you’ve done?On set, did you have that feeling of “This is important” or did you just try to do good work like normal?If I get to set and there’s a hundred black people on the side of a waterfall and Lupita is dressed in this adornment and Danai is dressed in this adornment and they’re like, “Hey Ryan, do I stand here or here?” I can’t think, “Ah, this is amazing, I’m making ‘Black Panther’ and there’s all these black folks on screen!” I really gotta tell Danai that she needs to move over here, and I gotta tell her five reasons why she’s gotta move over here, because she’s gonna wanna know ’em! [Laughter]AdvertisementBut seriously, I grew up reading these comic books and watching all these movies. If I really thought about the fact that I’m making one of these things right now, with people I know and love, I would break down emotionally. I wouldn’t be no good to anybody.In that moment, I was like, “This is big.” I had never been on a set with so many black people before and we were all so focused and I could feel a vibration in the air. We all felt so privileged to have an opportunity to be a part of this moment in history.Michael, one of the interesting complexities of the film comes from Killmonger’s identity as an African-American, which contrasts against T’Challa’s African-ness. What did you want to bring to the character?AdvertisementBut the truth is that some of those places that people might refer to as backwaters — and these recent comments definitely aren’t the first time somebody has said something like that — were the cradle of civilization. They were the first places to do anything that we would consider to be civilized.All the structures that we built in Wakanda, they’re taller structures of what you’ll find in Africa. Some of them we switched up — instead of mud we used [the fictional supermetal] vibranium — but those are buildings that you’ll really find in Mali, in Ethiopia, in Nigeria.I spent about three weeks in Africa [doing research for “Black Panther”] and I truly felt that seeing it for myself was necessary for my growth as a human being. That experience made me not only capable [of writing] this film, but it made me whole as a person.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBut there is at least one prominent example of a country’s top elected official continuing to own a major business empire while in office. And even if the parallel is not exact, it’s hardly encouraging: Silvio Berlusconi, who served nine years as Italy’s prime minister.The two men share many qualities apart from their mutual admiration for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and attractive women. Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Berlusconi is a billionaire. He initially made his fortune as a real estate developer, then diversified into banking, advertising, publishing, news and entertainment media and ownership of the European soccer club A.C. Milan.Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Berlusconi was elected prime minister as a change agent, called the novus homo of a populist uprising. As in the United States, (and unlike most European countries) no conflict-of-interest laws in Italy prevent the prime minister from owning a business. Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Berlusconi faced calls to divest his sprawling business empire.Mr. Berlusconi resigned all his executive positions and directorships and pledged to have no day-to-day involvement in running the businesses. But he did not divest — he retained majority ownership and installed his adult offspring in oversight positions, much as Mr. Trump has suggested he will do.A result was an unending series of scandals, even as Mr. Berlusconi’s businesses profited and the size of his personal fortune soared, reaching $12 billion by 2005, according to an estimate by Forbes magazine, considered the most reliable guide to the world’s wealthiest people. (Berlusconi’s wealth has declined significantly since he left office. Forbes estimates his current net worth at $5.6 billion.)“There were so many scandals with Berlusconi that it’s hard to know where to begin,” said Alexander Stille, a professor at the Columbia Journalism School and author of “The Sack of Rome,” a critical look at Mr. Berlusconi’s entangled business and political fortunes. Mr. Stille pointed to a communications law that allowed the prime minister to maintain a virtual monopoly over private television in Italy.“That kind of thing happened all the time,” he said. “All sorts of provisions appeared to be tailor-made to fit the contours of his business empire.”“It’s unbelievable to us in Italy,” Mr. Pollicino said, “that we’d be comparing Berlusconi to an American president.”Norman Eisen, a lawyer and conflicts-of-interest specialist who advised the Obama administration and is now at the Brookings Institution, agreed. “It’s shocking that we’re even having a conversation comparing Trump to Berlusconi and his antecedent strongmen of Italy, a long line that runs all the way back to Caesar,” Mr. Eisen said. “I guess we’ll all be relieved if he turns out to be Berlusconi and not Mussolini.”Mr. Eisen said that anything is possible, though. “We’ll know when we see his actual plan to address the business conflicts,” he added. “That will tell us whether he’ll abuse and make a mockery of the office or do what every other modern president has done and put his assets in a blind trust or the equivalent.”A spokeswoman said Mr. Trump declined to comment for this column.Such an arrangement seemed to impose few restraints on Mr. Berlusconi. “Berlusconi said he had nothing to do with operating his business empire,” Mr. Stille said. “But then he’d meet with business figures like Rupert Murdoch and discuss business. There was very little separation.”And in his career Mr. Trump has shown more respect for the law than Mr. Berlusconi did. “Trump has pushed the legal envelope,” Mr. Eisen said. “Berlusconi broke right through it.”But many more of Mr. Berlusconi’s businesses are domestic than Mr. Trump’s, with relatively few interests that might be influenced by foreign governments. “Trump’s business interests are primarily international,” Mr. Eisen said. “In that sense Trump is more dangerous than Berlusconi.”To the dismay of many, the Italian electorate showed scant interest in any of Mr. Berlusconi’s blatant conflicts. He was elected three times despite the constant drumbeat of scandal. “None of these issues seemed to register with the Italian public,” Mr. Stille said. “It was incredibly depressing to those of us writing about it. Most Italians with limited experience outside Italy assumed this was somehow not exceptional. It was just the way the world worked.”Indeed, Mr. Pollicino said, Mr. Berlusconi’s resignation, in 2011, had “nothing to do with any of the scandals — it was because of Italy’s severe economic distress and investors’ loss of confidence in the Italian markets.”Like Mr. Berlusconi, Mr. Trump has said that voters were fully aware of his business activities and potential conflicts when they cast ballots for him, and that “only the crooked media makes this a big deal.”But the fact that Mr. Berlusconi largely got away with it does not mean Mr. Trump should look to him as a role model. “Berlusconi,” Mr. Eisen said, “was widely viewed internationally as the second-greatest Italian clown since Roberto Benigni,” the comic actor. “But Italy plays a vastly smaller role in the world order than the United States does. We can’t afford to have that here, and I don’t think the American public would stand for it.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOff the MenuAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementForbes may want to rethink that.AdvertisementSo I set out this week to assess the size and scope of her fortune, not to invade her privacy but because she’s that all-too-rare commodity in the ranks of the ultrawealthy — a role model. Not only has she made her fortune largely through her own wits and imagination, but she also pays taxes and gives generously to charity. At a time of bitter disputes over rising income inequality, no one seems to resent Ms. Rowling’s runaway success.Advertisement“She struggled as a single mother,” he said. “Then, she created this amazing franchise. She had tremendous talent, and she’s reaping the rewards. People don’t mind that. What they resent is when chief executives get paid for failure.”Ms. Rowling has also been backed by some high-powered negotiating and marketing muscle — Scholastic, which published the Potter books; Warner Bros., the studio behind the Potter films and now the “Fantastic Beasts” franchise; and NBCUniversal, which opened the Wizarding World attractions at its theme parks. Neil Blair, a former Warner Bros. executive, has represented her and fiercely protected her interests since he founded the Blair Partnership, a literary agency, in 2011, with Ms. Rowling as his most prominent client. Mr. Blair did not respond to requests for comment.A close look at Ms. Rowling’s sources of income suggests that she’s worth more than $1 billion, even allowing for a large margin of error. I came up with the estimates by interviewing a range of publishing and entertainment executives and agents. Some of them have negotiated with Ms. Rowling’s representatives and knew what terms they were seeking. No one was willing to be identified because pretty much everyone hopes to do business with Ms. Rowling. “She’s a sacred cow,” one executive said.To start with the obvious, there’s the source of her wealth: The seven Harry Potter books have sold an estimated 450 million copies, with estimated total revenue of $7.7 billion. At a standard 15 percent author’s royalty, she would have earned $1.15 billion. These books continue to sell strongly years after they were first published.Ms. Rowling has presumably been able to negotiate better deals for her subsequent books, which include adult mysteries under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith, published by a Little Brown imprint, as well as numerous Potter spinoffs. These works probably contributed at least another $50 million.AdvertisementThe next four Potter films were far more lucrative, generating well over $4 billion in revenue. By then, she was one of the rare talents who probably had negotiated a deal providing her a percentage of a film’s gross revenue. At 10 percent, that’s another $400 million.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She almost certainly, according to the people I spoke with, managed a similar deal for the “Fantastic Beasts” series. Even if the first film generates just $500 million in revenue, less than half the highest-grossing Potter films, that adds another $50 million to her fortune, bringing the film total to $700 million.NBCUniversal does not break out revenue from the Wizarding World attractions, but attendance has more than doubled since the first Harry Potter attraction opened in 2010. Last year, NBCUniversal’s parent, Comcast, said overall theme park revenue jumped more than 60 percent to $1.4 billion.If half of that comes from Wizarding World, and Ms. Rowling gets 2 percent, then her take last year would have been $14 million. Since 2010, when the first attraction opened, I’d estimate she has earned at least $30 million on ticket sales, which would bring her total theme park earnings to roughly $100 million.NBCUniversal also bought exclusive television rights to the eight Harry Potter films this summer in a deal valued at as much as $250 million. Ms. Rowling presumably received a large piece of that, at least $125 million. That replaced a deal with Disney estimated to have been worth $50 million or more to her.That brings her total estimated earnings from books, movies, theme parks and television to more than $2.2 billion. Assuming that she paid Britain’s top individual tax rate of 45 percent, she would have been left with $1.2 billion.Ms. Rowling also has other income. She did not write the play “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” but no doubt earned a licensing fee and is a profit participant. Long-running hit shows can generate enormous income — the composer Andrew Lloyd Webber has an estimated net worth of $1.2 billion.AdvertisementWhatever the precise size of her fortune, Ms. Rowling is enormously wealthy. In this postelection holiday season, maybe her self-made success is something everyone can feel warm about. “It’s not going to happen to everyone, but it’s an inspiration that if you work hard and have talent, really good things can happen,” Professor Kaplan said. “It’s kind of like her books: Good triumphs over evil.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookIf this seems, well, normal it is because this tawdry glimpse into the industry — with its powerful men and passed-around girls — is deeply embedded in its history, its lore and its very identity. It’s the old yet evergreen story of the dewy young woman who comes to Hollywood, does a screen test and maybe signs a contract. The company dyes her hair blonde, feeds her pills and puts her on a diet or under a plastic surgeon’s knife. The lucky ones become Marilyn Monroe (or the It Girl du jour); the luckier ones get out alive. Others remain passed-around girls. The old studio system is gone, but the attitude that exploitation is part of the price for being in the business — hey, it’s Hollywood — endures.One paradox of Mr. Weinstein’s career is that while he emerged in the independent film world in the 1980s — positioning his earlier company, Miramax Films, as the David to the mainstream’s Goliath — he helped build a media giant that came to resemble an old-fashioned Hollywood studio. In an age of drab bean counters, Miramax had moxie and mystique. Importantly, it had a stable of publicity-ready female stars like Ms. Paltrow and rock-star male auteurs, most notably a favorite of critics, Quentin Tarantino. Sure, Mr. Weinstein might sometimes swing at someone, literally, but in Harveywood misdeeds were soon overshadowed by box-office tallies and savvy public relations.Peter Biskind, a former editor at the film magazine Premiere, tried to investigate Mr. Weinstein back in 1991, but writes that Miramax threatened to pull its advertising, adding, “the next thing I knew, Harvey was writing columns for Premiere and I was his editor.” Over the years, Mr. Weinstein’s grip on soft-bellied entertainment news media remained firm partly because it was mutually advantageous. And, as he rose, he supported women who supported him. In 2007, he presented a Crystal Award — given by Women in Film — to Renée Zellweger, a star of Miramax titles like “Chicago.”Given the revelations about Mr. Weinstein, it may seem surprising that his companies also offered actual opportunities for women, including directors like Jane Campion (“The Piano”) and older actresses like Judi Dench (“Shakespeare in Love”). This wasn’t progressive; it was evidence of a shrewd embrace of old-studio-style product diversification. In some ways, it is because Mr. Weinstein and his brother, Bob Weinstein, released different kinds of movies and didn’t pour all their resources only into formulas — and male-driven superhero movies — that they gave women opportunities.Jenni Konner, the co-showrunner for the HBO series “Girls,” has said that the revelations about Mr. Weinstein are a tipping point: “This is the moment we look back on and say, ‘That’s when it all started to change.’” I hope she’s right. One problem is that the entertainment industry is extraordinarily forgiving of those who have made it a lot of money, as Mel Gibson can tell you. It might glance at the fallen comrade on the floor, but only so it can step over the body en route to the next meeting. And if that comrade somehow gets on his feet again, the industry will ask if he has a new project. This forgiveness is often ascribed to the familiar line that the only thing the business cares about is money.Money often serves as a rationale for some of the industry’s noxiousness, including its sexism and racism: We can’t hire women, blacks, etc., because they don’t sell. Outsiders tend to see the industry as liberal, and while insiders do promote progressive causes, the business hews to a fundamental conservatism. This conservatism shapes its story recycling, its exploitation of women (and men) and its preservation of a male-dominated, racially homogeneous system. Despite pressure, including from the likes of Ava DuVernay and Lena Dunham, the industry resists change. Those in power don’t see an upside in ceding it.I hope real change comes soon, especially for the women working in the industry who each day are forced to fight sexism just so that they can do their jobs. I hope change comes because the movies need new and different voices and visions, something other than deadening, damaging stereotypes and storybook clichés. And I hope change comes for those of us who love movies. I’ve spent a lifetime navigating the contradictions of that love, grappling with the pleasures movies offer with the misogyny that too often has informed what happened behind the camera and what is onscreen. The movies can break your heart, but this isn’t the time only for tears. It is also the time for rage.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSMany have compared Miguel to the musical legend Prince for his artistic genius and unconventional style. Miquel has captivated the hearts&minds of the pop community. In a short period he has risen to the top of the charts with a versatility that cAdvertisement“From a regulatory standpoint – classic anti-trust analysis – this is kind of a no-brainer,” said James Stewart of The Times, “It’s classic vertical integration.”Until recently, that would have been all but unthinkable. But in today’s superheated and politically charged environment, they may just succeed.Politicians were piling on this week to criticize the deal, including Donald J. Trump; Tim Kaine, the Democratic nominee for vice president; and Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Al Franken of Minnesota. Still to be heard from is Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a prominent foe of corporate consolidation.A younger generation of antitrust scholars who are rethinking the nation’s fundamental approach to antitrust law may prove even more influential.AdvertisementAdvertisementIn vertical mergers, a company buys a supplier; in horizontal mergers, direct competitors combine.But the new generation harks back to the original trustbusters of the early 20th century, who were most concerned about preventing corporations from gaining too much power.If AT&T;’s purchase of Time Warner is completed, the combined company would generate $175 billion a year, based on 2015’s revenue. Wall Street is not hugely enamored with the deal, however. After an initial jump, Time Warner’s stock price has declined, as has AT&T;’s.2015REVENUETIME WARNER$6 bil.HBOTOTAL: $28.1 bil.TURNER$11Includes TNT, TBSand CNN24th:$86.74WARNER BROS.$13TV, movies andvideo games$4INTERNATIONALStock pricein OctoberCONSUMERMOBILITY$35AT&T;Includes wirelessservicesTOTAL: $146.8 bil.Stock pricein October24th:$36.86ENTERTAINMENTGROUP$35Includes pay TV andhigh-speed internetservices.BUSINESSSOLUTIONSIncludes wireless,voice and dataservices as well asequipment tobusinesses.$71“The antitrust system as it stands is focused on prices to consumers, innovation and efficiencies,” Mr. Wu said. “That reflects the triumph of the University of Chicago school of economics. But there’s an older tradition, embodied by Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, that says a concentration of too much power in too few hands is bad for democracy and bad for consumers.”Scott Hemphill, an antitrust and intellectual property professor at New York University School of Law, agreed. “Vertical deals rarely get prohibited outright,” he said. “Modern antitrust case law has pretty much kept politics out of the analysis.”“But is antitrust law only about economics, or does enhanced political power play a role?” Mr. Hemphill asked. “Would a combined AT&T and Time Warner put too much power in one company? That’s the big question.”It’s a question AT&T says it is prepared to answer. “If someone is looking for a test case to overturn the time-honored judicial precedents of vertical mergers, this is not the case,” David R. McAtee II, AT&T’s general counsel, told me this week. “What we have here is a classic vertical merger that will benefit consumers in an environment that’s begging for innovation.”Given antitrust precedents, it’s no wonder AT&T and Time Warner would expect regulatory approval, even if they have to accept some conditions imposed by the government. Time Warner is so confident the deal will be approved that it negotiated a paltry breakup fee (by megamerger standards) in the event it’s blocked: just $500 million.At nearly every opportunity, Randall L. Stephenson, AT&T’s chief executive, and other architects of the deal have repeated the “vertical” mantra. As Mr. Stephenson told me this weekend, “This is strictly a vertical merger. We’re combining with one of our big suppliers. You’d be hard pressed to find a vertical merger denied by the regulators. They won’t give us a free pass, but we expect that if they have concerns, they’ll impose conditions to address them.”AdvertisementMr. Stephenson is right about that. Time Warner is just one of many content suppliers to AT&T, albeit an important one. Time Warner competes vigorously with other film and television studios, cable networks, and producers of news and entertainment.AT&T;, once known informally as Ma Bell, is a storied American brand that goes back under a succession of names to the late 19th century, after Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone.AT&T competes in cable delivery systems, satellite and wireless. While more concentrated than news and entertainment (there are just four major wireless carriers), they are still competitive markets.This isn’t a “horizontal” American Airlines-US Airways merger (which inexplicably passed antitrust review) or even the earlier 21st Century Fox bid, which Time Warner rebuffed in part because of antitrust concerns.Since neither firm competes with the other one, merging the two would have little or no effect on market concentration. And the deal’s architects are promising a bevy of virtues for consumers, from more wireless video access to lower prices.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Case closed?Thanks in large part to groundbreaking books in the 1970s by the Supreme Court nominee and Yale Law School antitrust scholar Robert Bork (“The Antitrust Paradox”) and Richard Posner (now an influential judge on the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals) at the University of Chicago Law School (“Antitrust Law”), vertical mergers came to be viewed as usually promoting competition and, by extension, consumer welfare.The view was embraced by the Supreme Court and embedded in the Justice Department’s vertical merger guidelines during the Reagan administration.The proposed Comcast-NBC Universal deal set off an avalanche of criticism from rival media companies and consumer advocates who argued that it consolidated too much power in one company. In 2011 the Justice Department sued to block the deal on grounds it had the potential to disadvantage competitors that delivered video services, such as satellite broadcasters and telecom companies, and emerging online video providers like Netflix.In an opinion that has no doubt been closely scrutinized by AT&T’s antitrust lawyers at Arnold & Porter, a federal judge ruled that the conditions Comcast accepted to ease the regulator’s concerns “will provide a prompt, certain and effective remedy for consumers by diminishing Comcast’s ability” to “harm competition.”AdvertisementWhether that has indeed been the case will no doubt be the subject of intense scrutiny by regulators. “It’s important to assess how well the NBC consent decree has done,” Mr. Hemphill said. “On the face of things, online video seems to be thriving. But has Comcast engaged in troubling behavior as a result of owning NBCUniversal? That’s an important question for thinking about this deal.”Susan P. Crawford, a professor at Harvard Law School and author of “Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age,” was an influential voice in encouraging regulators to oppose the proposed Comcast-Time Warner Cable merger. She predicted the same fate for AT&T-Time Warner.“I think this is unlikely to be approved,” she said. “There were very few public benefits to the Comcast/NBCU deal, which should not have gone through. It’s difficult even to identify a public benefit for this one.”Mr. McAtee of AT&T said it would “be fundamentally inconsistent and unfair” for the government to reject AT&T’s deal for Time Warner after it approved the Comcast NBC Universal merger.“We feel we have an even stronger case,” he added. “Comcast was a dominant, entrenched cable and broadband provider, and NBC Universal had big broadcast licenses in an ecosystem where over-the-top video was still in its infancy. Yet the government approved the deal with conditions. On all counts, we have a stronger case for approval.”AT&T and Time Warner executives will have many months to make their argument to consumers, Congress, regulators and the White House. But there’s a risk they will find themselves in the midst of a revolution in antitrust thinking that transcends any one case.“It’s interesting that both presidential candidates have said they’d take a close look at this,” Mr. Wu said. “So one of the first tests for the new president will be where they come down on this: Will it be Louis Brandeis or the University of Chicago?”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementLOS ANGELES —  A behind-the-scenes dramatization on how the New York Times broke the story that accused powerful Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein of a pattern of sexual misconduct will be developed as a feature film, one of its backers said on Wednesday.Annapurna Pictures and Brad Pitt's Plan B Entertainment acquired the film rights to the story by journalists Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey, Annapurna spokeswoman Ashley Momtaheni said.The story sparked the #MeToo movement exposing workplace harassment and won a Pulitzer Prize last week.The film will show how the journalists' story came together and will be treated in a similar way to 2015 Oscar winner "Spotlight," about the Boston Globe's reporting on sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, Momtaheni said.AdvertisementThe film is not expected to focus on Weinstein himself, Momtaheni added.The original investigation by Twohey and Kantor into Weinstein's alleged behavior was published in October last year.AdvertisementThe two reporters were honored last week with a Pulitzer Prize, the highest honor in American journalism, along with Ronan Farrow who reported on Weinstein for the New Yorker magazine.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 70 women have accused Weinstein, once one of Hollywood's most powerful figures, of sexual misconduct, including rape. Weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone.A representative for Weinstein did not have immediate comment on the deal.Annapurna has partnered in the past on films with The Weinstein Company, Weinstein's former production company which is currently in Chapter 11 bankruptcy.Plan B is best known for producing three Oscar best picture winners, 2006's "The Departed," 2013's "12 Years a Slave" and 2016's "Moonlight."(Reporting by Eric Kelsey; Editing by Leslie Adler)Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:This is not funny, as we live in a very dangerous world. Beyond the headlines are many ominous warnings of countries, including our own, preparing for a war that can easily go nuclear — that is, if we do not have steady and wise leadership.I would encourage people to treat what many describe as a circuslike atmosphere in government with less amusement and more of the gravity it deserves. Everyone needs comic relief, and that can be obtained in late-night entertainment talk shows and elsewhere, but not in the news.JEFFREY B. FREEDMAN, NEW YORKAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS