AdvertisementUpdated, 10:23 a.m.Good morning on this bright Monday.After weeks of campaigning, millions spent and a few combative debates, New Yorkers will head to the polls tomorrow for a special election.Up for grabs are nine seats in the Assembly and two in the Senate — and with them, the opportunity for Democrats to control every branch of state government.Six of the 11 races are in and around New York City. Of those, Assembly contests will take place:AdvertisementAdvertisementAnd Senate contests will take place:For years, Democrats have held a majority in the Assembly and Senate, but their initiatives have been blocked by the Independent Democratic Conference, a group of eight Senate Democrats who voted with Republicans.Advertisement“Now that the breakaway Democrats have agreed to return and it looks like smooth sailing, the one final hiccup would be if one of these two seats — in the Bronx or in Westchester — were to go Republican,” Ms. Foderaro said. “If so, the Democrats’ dream of retaking the Senate would collapse because they simply wouldn’t have the numbers.”The polls are open tomorrow from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.Here’s what else is happening:We’re getting early results from the contest above our heads.Today’s victor: a radiant blue sky.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementThe organization’s goal, in honoring language and literature, is not only to celebrate the achievements of our culture and others, but also to raise awareness of how the written word has shaped our city and world.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byGood morning.Here’s what you need to know:• “What follows are notes I typed in the vehicle immediately upon exiting Trump Tower on 1/6/17.”Mr. Trump said on Twitter that the memos showed there had been “NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION.”The president is also hiring two former federal prosecutors based in Florida.• There’s no doubt that the latest U.N. sanctions on Pyongyang are causing pain that earlier measures did not.“We have no direct evidence that a specific person provided the fentanyl to Prince,” a county attorney said, adding that the investigation uncovered “no sinister motive, intent or conspiracy to murder Prince.”Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.The planet is warming not only because of fossil fuels, but also because soil, forests and wetlands are being ravaged.“When I tell colleagues from other states, they are just shocked that we have a bridge that is so expensive. They ask, ‘What’s on Staten Island? Are they giving away gold on the streets? Or is it some kind of utopia?’ ”“Old soldiers never die; they just fade away.”Gen. Douglas MacArthur took those words from an old Army ballad and made them famous 67 years ago this week in his farewell address to Congress.Let’s try one. Using General MacArthur’s template, “Old golfers never die, they just lose their drive,” would be a snowclone. Using X and Y as stand-ins, snowclones are easy to spot: X is my middle name, a few Xs short of a Y, and so on.It’s unclear who first said “pink is the new black,” but it is now one of the most popular snowclone templates, notably producing the title of the book and the Netflix series “Orange Is the New Black.”Charles McDermid wrote today’s Back Story._____AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported by36 HoursA new bike share program, museums, music and, yes, barbecue await visitors. Of special interest this spring: the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Aptly, the name of the role is A.So how do you top “King Lear”?In a way, “Three Tall Women” — a comedy about decrepitude or a tragedy about survival, depending on how you look at it — is “Queen Lear” in a fun house mirror.A is a rich old lady, 92 but vainly pretending to be 91: a fossil of the old guard with all the imperiousness, mischief and grit that suggests. She spends most of her time abusing the memory of a bad marriage and an even worse son — worse because gay. Still, you are never sure how much of what she says is true; her grievances, like her racism, anti-Semitism and homophobia, seem almost rote.For A, hanging on to a sense of identity means maintaining the enamel shell of her narcissism even as she forgets what she once found so fascinating inside it. Ms. Jackson, in a lilac dressing gown and a marcelled silver wig, digs deep into that contradiction, producing huge laughs from the grim idea that awfulness is a damn good habit as death hovers.The audience for her awfulness, in the first act anyway, consists of Ms. Metcalf as B, her fiftyish seen-it-all caretaker, and Ms. Pill as C, an uptight twentysomething emissary from her lawyer’s office, trying to bring order to a chaos of unpaid bills. Ms. Metcalf, spiky and floppy, is particularly mordant in this material, sometimes bullying and sometimes coddling A in an effort to get through another unpleasant day with minimal fuss. Confined to her employer’s grand bedroom, she is a visual joke, stomping around in gray pants and sneakers.Ms. Pill, in the least developed role, nevertheless suggests a youthful vanity as powerful as A’s. In her own hard shell of a navy pinstripe suit, she is tart, verging on pitiless; you feel her need to distance herself from the prospect of becoming exactly the same kind of woman.And then, in the second act, here performed continuously with the first, her nightmare comes true.Having slyly acclimatized the audience to a naturalistic comedy about the frailty of memory, Albee gleefully reshuffles the cards. After a boffo stage trick straight out of vaudeville, he lands you in a newly arranged world, in which A, B and C are no longer different women but the same one, refracted, at different ages.In the new configuration, with the whole cast dressed in coordinated purples — the superb costumes are by Ann Roth — the tone darkens even as the play remains raucously funny. You may never have heard a dirty story about a man’s anatomy told as Ms. Jackson does in the second act, but A, B and C, now a living time-lapse photograph, have more at stake in one another’s success, and more at risk in failure.But unlike in much of his early work, he does not insist on dominating it. “Three Tall Women” is rigorous but also generous, even loving, to its characters — and audience. It honors the women’s flintiness and fear as C swears not to become B and B hopes not to become A. In doing so, it slips Beckettian existentialism through the commercial barricades by disguising it as comfortable mainstream entertainment.That doesn’t mean this is a perfect play. Given the Cubist structure, it’s not surprising that the themes eventually start to recycle with more panache than novelty. And C, as written, does not always stand for compelling.Still, time has been good to “Three Tall Women,” and Mr. Mantello’s production further burnishes its insights and confirms its originality. The staging tricks enhance the ones that Albee built in, with Miriam Buether’s astonishing set design, at first so pretty and cozy, holding unexpected dimensions of alienation in store. The lighting (by Paul Gallo) and subtle sound design (by Fitz Patton) beautifully support the idea of a play slipping identities in the same way its characters do.Finally, though, it comes back to the actors. Ms. Jackson’s history with us, and her aura of indomitability, mean that she is not merely a casting coup for A but a natural advocate for the play’s central themes. She is, politically and personally, the embodiment of not going gentle into that good night; death and Thatcherism are all the same to her.Watching these three women in “Three Tall Women” means seeing the ghosts and echoes of many other women as well. They complete Albee’s imaginative leap into difficult souls, which of course means all of us. And they honor a play that despite its frailties and wrinkles has aged beautifully, into a burning, raving classic.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayGood morning on this bright Wednesday.New York weather can be baffling this time of year, but if you listen to your body, it may be able to tell you what’s in store.The knowledge is in your joints.Meteorologists look at changes in atmospheric pressure to forecast weather patterns. Our joints, Dr. Singh explained, respond to those changes, too.At normal or higher pressure, when the atmosphere is heavier, it pushes against us from the outside, preventing our body tissue from expanding.But as atmospheric pressure drops — as it does ahead of damp, rainy or snowy weather — body tissue has more space to expand. When it does, it can push against our joints, causing some people, especially those with injuries or arthritis, to feel aches and pains.Our bodies have a harder time sensing when a brilliant day is coming. On days when the pressure is average, your joints likely wouldn’t hurt, so if the pressure were to rise, there would be no change for the body to feel, Dr. Singh said.The weatherman says so.Here’s what else is happening:Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Civil Rights Act of 1968, considered our last major piece of civil rights legislation.“The time is here. Action must be now,” the president said on that day, reminding members of Congress in attendance that two years earlier, Dr. King had been at the White House meeting in which the housing law was first proposed.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSIt's 1971. Cathy Rush is a woman ahead of her time ... and she's about to embark on an adventure for the ages. A new era is dawning in the country and in collegiate athletics, where a national champion will be crowned for the first time in women's bIn the 1950s, Dude Delaney (David Arquette) is a guitar-playing drifter who wanders into a quiet town looking to play music and generally cause trouble, much to the chagrin of the local sheriff (William Sadler). While palling around with his B-movieGo to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported by“We look good together, we’re pretty cool / I like it, it was love at first sight,” they crooned in Japanese, tossing their long hair and flashing runway-worthy pouts on Thursday night, as 10,000 fans at a Tokyo arena shrieked and waved bright pink light sticks in unison to the hip-hop beat.Yes, but will it play in Pyongyang?On Saturday, Red Velvet, along with 10 other acts from South Korea, will travel to North Korea to perform in concerts staged by Seoul as part of a campaign of cultural diplomacy.It is yet another sign of how the usually reclusive North Korean regime is strategically opening itself to the outside world as it hints it may be willing to roll back its nuclear program.But before that, the North will welcome the emissaries of K-pop in the first appearance by South Korean artists in the North for more than a decade.The symbolism of the visit is striking, given that the South Korean military uses K-pop for psychological warfare, blasting it from loudspeakers in the Demilitarized Zone that divides the two countries. Defectors from the North have been known to cite K-pop as one of their inspirations for escaping to the South.It seems odd that the autocratic North Korean regime, which has sought to cut off its citizens from what it calls “decadent capitalism,” is now rolling out the red carpet for these performers.Red Velvet’s concert in Tokyo, attended mostly by teenage girls, was a nonstop cavalcade of overtly consumerist imagery. The singers enacted a pajama party where they tossed popcorn around a bedroom and sucked on pinwheel lollipops. In another scene, they wore candy-colored satin dressing gowns, twirling in chairs designed to look as if they were seated in a nail salon. Twice during the show, the women boarded carts built to look like circus animal cages and rode through the audience.When K-pop performers went to Pyongyang on several occasions in the early 2000s, the North Korean audiences “pulled faces or were expressionless because they were probably told to react negatively,” said Kang Dong-wan, a professor of North Korean culture and politics at Dong-A University in Busan, South Korea.But now that the North has made dramatic advances in its nuclear program, it may even promote the visit as an achievement.“The propaganda will say, ‘The South Korean artists came because we developed our nuclear weapons, and they are here to celebrate our nuclear development,’” said Shim Jin-sup, a retired psychological warfare officer in the South Korean military.“South Korea is probably being played by Kim Jong-un, but still, there is nothing to lose,” Mr. Shim added. “Such cultural exchanges never hurt South Korea in the past.”Analysts say the artists will probably give carefully vetted versions of their usual acts.“Everything from their costumes to the choreography will be part of the performance negotiations,” said Darcie Draudt, a nonresident Korean studies fellow at the Honolulu-based Pacific Forum at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.In an interview on Friday in Seoul at the offices of Mystic Entertainment, a talent agency, Choi Jung-in, 37, an R&B vocalist who is joining the Pyongyang tour, said her agents told her South Korean officials had asked her to sing “Uphill Road,” a hit from five years ago, because it “brought solace to people and touched their hearts.”But Ms. Choi said she wasn’t thinking much about how the North Korean audience would respond. “There is no difference between music for propaganda and music for music to enjoy, is there?” she said.There is no question that a fair bit of propaganda will be involved. According to the South Korean news media, several of the stars going on the trip this week, including some in their 60s, will perform North Korean ballads and other songs invoking peace and reunification.The audiences for the concerts will consist mostly of elite, loyal cadres unlikely to undergo a sudden ideological conversion under the influence of a few K-pop stars. The South Koreans will perform on Sunday in a theater that holds about 1,500 people, and artists from North and South will perform together in a 10,000-capacity stadium on Tuesday.“The North Korean authorities probably won’t broadcast the South Korean performances in North Korea,” said Mr. Shim, “either intentionally or due to lack of electricity.”On social media in South Korea, fans generally expressed support for the artists’ trip. “If Red Velvet goes to North Korea to perform at a concert, half of its people would cheer and would want to be reunified,” wrote one Twitter user.In Japan, some fans expressed fears for the performers. “Is it a safe country?” a Twitter user wrote. “In North Korea there is only one TV channel and people who listen to K-pop songs are executed, right?”At the concert in Tokyo on Thursday, Rio Kikuchi, 20, a factory inspector from Iwate, said she was a little worried about Red Velvet’s going to North Korea. But Ms. Kikuchi, who feels a vague dread of North Korean missiles aimed toward Japan, said that “if anyone can help achieve peace, they can.”In a brief appearance backstage by the members of Red Velvet, their minders deflected questions.But when a reporter asked if they were looking forward to going to Pyongyang, Kim Yerim, who is known as Yeri, grinned and nodded. “Yes, yes, Pyongyang,” she said, and gave a thumbs-up.Motoko Rich reported from Tokyo, and Su-Hyun Lee from Seoul, South Korea. Hisako Ueno contributed reporting from Tokyo.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementJennifer Louise Marcus and Jesse Scott Santamaria were married Nov. 18 at Casa Marina, a resort in Key West, Fla. Cecile Reynaud, a Universal Life minister, officiated.The bride, 31, works in New York as a communication manager for Twitter, where she manages consumer and entertainment publicity and communications for the company. She graduated from Florida State University in Tallahassee.She is the daughter of Louise M. Marcus and Theodore A. Marcus, both of Wayne, N.J. The bride’s father, who is retired, was a partner of Arcs & Angles, a New York-based company that owned the patent for and manufactured the Hookless Shower Curtain. Her mother is a real estate agent for Weichert Realty in Wayne.The groom, 30, is an associate in the legal department at Goldman Sachs in New York. He graduated from the University of Florida in Gainesville and received a law degree from St. John’s University.He is the son of Marcy B. Santamaria of Plantation, Fla. The groom’s mother works in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as a legal secretary at Holland and Knight, a law firm based in New York.The couple met in 2014 through the dating app Hinge.Go to Home Page »