AdvertisementAs a songwriter, SZA is known for her acute self-awareness — she writes about the mechanics of desire and insecurity with such a penetrating gaze, her music can feel almost indecent to listen to. But that extraordinary instinct for self-examination can cause complications, too. The R&B singer, born Solána Rowe, second-guessed her debut album so thoroughly that it was delayed for a year. The head of her record label says that self-doubt is her “kryptonite.”“My anxiety had been telling me the whole time that it sucked,” said the singer, 27, soft-spoken and unreserved in a fluorescent-lit office. In an oversized woolly sweater, with one foot in a chunky Balenciaga sneaker slung reflexively over the top of a wooden desk, she could still enumerate the record’s flaws.What HappenedBest and WorstWinnersRed CarpetAdvertisementAdvertisementAll the accolades have left her inner critic bereft. SZA said the experience — of persistent self-suspicion colliding with overwhelming external praise — had so unmoored her that she came up with a name for the condition: “dysmorphia.”“You wonder, ‘Are you delusional? Is something wrong with you?’ ” she said. “I never imagined anything like this would happen in a million years.”Part of her still can’t. “I guess I’ll have to re-evaluate my life,” she said, asked what she’ll do if she ends up winning a Grammy. A compliment, for her, has become a kind of crisis, too. “Because then the dysmorphia would really be hitting a peak.”In an industry where the youngest stars radiate the most heat, SZA was a relatively late bloomer. She self-released her first EP at 22 and came to music as a refuge from jobs as a bartender and a sales assistant on the floor at Sephora. She was born to a Catholic communications executive mother and a Muslim television producer father in St. Louis. The family moved to suburban Maplewood, N.J., when she was 10.Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a child, her life was circumscribed by gymnastics practice and Islamic prep school, realms where discipline and accountability were sacrosanct. Music was freeing, low pressure.“I was just kind of stumbling through it, very novice,” she said of the first songs she wrote at the urging of her brother, a rapper. “It was music made in a closet with beats stolen off the internet.”AdvertisementIn 2011, SZA was working part-time for a streetwear company in New York when she met the president of Top Dawg Entertainment, Terrence Henderson, known as Punch. He was in town for a concert headlined by the label’s star artist, Kendrick Lamar, which happened to be sponsored by her employer. Mr. Henderson heard SZA’s music — a friend took the initiative and played it for him, to the singer’s horror — and didn’t bite at first. But he kept in touch and ended up signing her three years later.The two EPs SZA released on her own in the interim — “See.SZA.Run” (2012) and “S” (2013) — were early salvos in a revolution in R&B. They shared as much DNA with hip-hop, Björk and left-of-center electronic music of artists like Toro y Moi and Purity Ring, as they did with Brandy or Jill Scott, inspiring comparisons to contemporary iconoclasts like the Weeknd and Frank Ocean.Her lyrics at the time were a world away from the open diary of “Ctrl.” Songs like “Time Travel Undone” and “Aftermath” were saturated in oblique imagery and abstract symbolism. And, as if to complete the obfuscation, her vocals were submerged in reverb and atmospherics, giving them a disembodied quality.When critics accused her of mistaking style for substance, she took it to heart.“People would say [expletive] like ‘I don’t know who she is, I don’t know what she’s talking about, this is boring,’ ” SZA said. “And I realized that I was bored with myself. I was just feeling and emoting with no structure and no intent.”On “Ctrl,” her objectives were transparency and humanity. She wanted to exhibit a red-blooded mind and body at work, to give voice to everything that she had once concealed.On “Supermodel,” the album’s opening track, she jabs an absent beau with spiteful taunts (“You was a temporary lover”) before turning the knife on herself (“Why am I so easy to forget?”). On the single “Drew Barrymore,” a confession of putative sins (“I’m sorry I’m not more ladylike, I’m sorry I don’t shave my legs at night”) becomes a defiant rallying cry.The writer and producer Issa Rae, who used multiple songs from “Ctrl” in Season 2 of her HBO series “Insecure,” said it was SZA’s sharp turn toward candor that made her take notice.“She’s tapping into raw emotions and personal stories in an unapologetic way,” Ms. Rae said. “Her earlier stuff was more of like a vibe to me, but now I feel like she’s a whole person who I recognize as someone I might know.”AdvertisementLike “Insecure” — and the surprise blockbuster of last summer, the movie “Girls Trip” — the specificity of “Ctrl” gave it particular resonance among a generation of young black women who have been underserved by mainstream entertainment.“It felt like ours,” Ms. Rae said of the album. “She was talking about experiences that I could relate to, and that the women that I know can relate to, and that was just such a pleasant surprise.”SZA said “Ctrl” was inspired in part by stereotypes about overbold black women and her desire to reclaim them in her personal life. It’s a theme she had previewed before, in songs that ended up on projects by Nicki Minaj and Beyoncé (“Feeling Myself,” 2014) and Rihanna (“Consideration,” 2016).“I don’t feel ashamed to be loud, which is an argument I’ve had with lots of men, who thought I was too sassy and unladylike,” she said. “A lot of black women get that rap, ‘You’re loud, and unsavory, or crass or abrasive.’ But I feel like that [expletive] is beautiful as hell.”The album’s unblinking, value-neutral depictions of sex and lust fed into a wider thread of visible female musicians asserting their sexual agency in their art. Like recent work by Cardi B, Tove Lo and Rihanna, it disavowed ingrained scripts in popular music, in which promiscuous men play and virtuous women get played. In her videos for “Supermodel” and “The Weekend,” she seduces the camera without being objectified by it.“I think a lot of sexuality was only taboo before because women weren’t allowed to talk about it — but women aren’t waiting for permission right now,” SZA said.Though she forgot to vote for herself at the Grammys (“I’m a mess,” she said) and all but expects the best new artist award to go to one of her competitors — she’s up against the rapper Lil Uzi Vert and the singers Julia Michaels, Alessia Cara and Khalid — SZA said she was encouraged that the Recording Academy had recognized so many artists of different racial backgrounds.“I think music is honest and will make you do honest things,” she said.Her nominations have inspired her to rededicate herself to making more ambitious music, including a planned collaboration with the producer Mark Ronson (“Uptown Funk”) and Tame Impala’s Kevin Parker, with whom she said she had recorded three songs.AdvertisementSince “Ctrl” was released, her concerts and meet-and-greets have become a kind of group therapy. Fans tell her about their love lives, deepest fears and private traumas. “I thought that these were just my lonely thoughts and that I was going to put them out to pasture,” SZA said. “But they weren’t out to pasture. Other people said, ‘Hey, I have lonely thoughts, too.’ ”Mr. Henderson said that SZA’s most passionate admirers are often the most vulnerable. “A lot of what she says is what people think but can’t articulate,” he said.The outpouring has shifted the artist’s estimation of her work. If “dysmorphia” is a distortion of perspective, the treatment may simply be recognizing that the distortion is there, and surrounding yourself with reliable witnesses.Recently, they’ve given her inner critic some competition.“It’s like God is slapping you in the face,” SZA said of the response to “Ctrl.” Then she translated what God had to say: “There’s something happening and you need to be grateful and you need to be present. I’m sorry that you’re scared, but this is your job.“Ready?”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementOur guide to new art shows and some that will be closing soon.AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementSee More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGood morning on this fabulous Friday.“No Irish need apply.”“I’ve put that up because I want people to know that when we’re talking about the anti-immigrant movement here, that we ourselves were on the receiving end of ‘no immigrants need apply,’” said Mr. Staunton, who is from County Mayo in Ireland. “And worse than just signs.”AdvertisementFor Irish immigrants, legalization remains the biggest hurdle, Mr. Staunton told us one day recently at O’Neill’s, as he concocted an Irish tea.Advertisement“Especially in this era, in the anti-immigrant era of Trump, we need to stand up as Irish-Americans,” he said. “It is un-American to pull the ladder up after you; the American way is to pass it down to the next person, and silence is complicity when it comes to this.”Mr. Staunton moved alone from Ireland to Boston in 1982, at the age of 19. He found work at a bar but spent his free time lobbying for legal status for young Irish immigrants — himself included.“I see no difference to my role, whether it’s representing bar owners at City Council hearings, addressing issues in Albany, or American money being involved in discrimination, or politics in Ireland,” he said.Stop by the bar to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day this weekend and, along with your drink, Mr. Staunton may offer an update on immigration reform or a quick history lesson — the bar is newly opened, but the relics on the wall transport patrons back to the 1700s.Advertisement“Sometimes they want to talk history,” Mr. Staunton said, “and sometimes they just want one of our very good pints of Guinness.”Here’s what else is happening:B-e-a-utiful!AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementSaturdaySundayAdvertisementSee More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byThe story of the past year, beginning with an inaugural speech of darker bile and greater bunk than any in my lifetime, has been the abdication and outsourcing of the moral authority that the presidency of the United States once had.On Sunday night, Hollywood, of all places, picked up the slack.I watched the Golden Globes and, yes, I noticed the false, sometimes cringe-worthy notes of hypocrisy and unwarranted self-congratulation. Movies and the rest of the entertainment industry have done more to promote degrading, confining stereotypes of women than to shatter them. And the social activism of many stars dovetails conveniently with the enhancement (or rehabilitation) of their personal brands. It’s virtue signaling in Valentino.But in this anxious moment of absent leadership, I also noticed that the actors, writers, directors and others who walked the red carpet and took the stage were having the kinds of conversations, and articulating the sorts of values, that the embattled and embittered people holding the reins of government are currently unwilling or unable to.They talked about diversity, decency and, yes, women: how frequently they’ve been unheard, how cruelly they’ve been mistreated and marginalized. And while these homilies weren’t exactly new, they had never had such timeliness and urgency and had never been such a resounding answer to silence.Sterling K. Brown, who won best performance by an actor in a television series, drama, for “This Is Us,” thanked its creator, Dan Fogelman, for a character who wasn’t colorless. “You wrote a role for a black man that could only be played by a black man,” Brown said. “I’m being seen for who I am and being appreciated for who I am. And it makes it that much more difficult to dismiss me or dismiss anybody who looks like me.”I never get eloquence like that about racial progress from Donald Trump’s White House.“This is ours to share,” Nicole Kidman said to her female co-stars in “Big Little Lies” as she accepted the award for best performance by an actress in a limited series or motion picture made for television. “Wow, the power of women.”If Trump ever uttered that sentence, it would be in terror, not celebration.America is upside down and inside out. There’s meaningless make-believe in the capital of politics. There’s meaningful politics in the capital of make-believe.Frances McDormand also mined the Hollywood-versus-Washington territory when she won for best performance by an actress in a motion picture, drama, for “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Praising the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which administers the Globes, she said, “Let’s face it: They managed to elect a female president.” (Her name is Meher Tatna.)These of course were the Globes for which most women dressed in black, not in mourning but in solidarity, as a way to mark a raised consciousness about sexual abuse and harassment and the fresh determination to fight them.But the sartorial departure didn’t pack quite the punch that it was intended to, partly because a monochromatic palette didn’t change the plunging necklines, gaudy jewelry and glamorous fillips of every other awards show. This was more simplification than sacrifice.And one effect was that on the red carpet, interviewers asked women about sexual harassment and men about their recent professional achievements. The battle against inequality begat more inequality.Hollywood at its best puts more aspirations in more people’s vocabularies. It did that last year, and the Globes were a reminder. As a recent story in The Times noted: “The three most popular movies at theaters in the United States and Canada in 2017 — ‘Star Wars: The Last Jedi,’ ‘Beauty and the Beast’ and ‘Wonder Woman’ — were each driven by female characters, something that has not happened in at least 37 years, as far back as full box office data is available. The top comedy of the year, ‘Girls Trip,’ was also anchored by women, as was the top film to play in limited release, ‘Lady Bird.’ ”“Lady Bird” and “Wonder Woman” were both directed by women to boot.There were assertive female characters at the center of “Lady Bird,” “Three Billboards,” “I, Tonya,” “The Post” and “The Shape of Water,” to name some of the movies that got the most attention at the Globes. There were women-centric plots in “Big Little Lies” and “The Handmaid’s Tale,” to mention two television projects that won big.In Washington I find less encouragement. I hope that 2018 will be a different story.And I hope that Hollywood, which still has such a very long way to go, takes to heart Rachel Brosnahan’s words when she won the Globe for best performance by an actress in a television series, musical or comedy, for her work in “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.”She noted that there were “so many women’s stories out there that still need and deserve to be told,” adding: “So as we enter this new year, please let’s continue to hold each other accountable and invest in and make and champion these stories.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementKate Marie Swarbrick and Jeroen van den Bergh were married Oct. 14 at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Notre Dame, Ind. The Rev. John I. Jenkins, a Roman Catholic priest and the president of the University of Notre Dame, performed the ceremony.The bride, 30, is a vice president in the Ad Sales Network Partnerships Group of NBCUniversal in New York. She graduated from Saint Louis University.She is the daughter of Kimberly A. Swarbrick and Jack B. Swarbrick Jr. of Indianapolis. The bride’s father is a vice president and the director of athletics at Notre Dame.The groom, who is also 30 and works in New York, is the director of business intelligence at WME | IMG, an entertainment agency based in Beverly Hills, Calif. He graduated from Washington University in St. Louis and received an M.B.A. from N.Y.U.He is a son of Aleida van den Bergh-Danser and Bert van den Bergh, also of Indianapolis. The groom’s mother teaches English as a second language in Indianapolis. His father, who also worked in Indianapolis, retired as president of neuroscience products at Eli Lilly, a pharmaceutical company.The couple met at North Central High School in Indianapolis.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byScene StealersLOS ANGELES — When Trevor Pryce retired as a pro football player in 2011, it would have been very easy for him to sit around in his boxer shorts all day, every day: Don’t disturb me, I’m watching “Judge Judy.”He had millions of dollars in the bank after spending 14 years as a defensive end for the Denver Broncos, Baltimore Ravens and New York Jets. He had nothing more to prove, having made two winning trips to the Super Bowl. He was also selected four times to the Pro Bowl.As Mr. Pryce said on Monday, “After working so hard on the field, it might make sense to get very busy doing absolutely nothing.”Mr. Pryce figured that his football fame would provide a running start, and he already had a little Hollywood experience. In 2008 he sold a movie idea to Sony Pictures about a guy who is struck by lighting and becomes a walking encyclopedia. (The studio ultimately dropped it.)You know where this yarn is headed: Film bigwigs stereotyping him as a dumb jock. “Don’t call us, we’ll call you.” Snickers about a football-related brain injury.But the last laugh may belong to Mr. Pryce. With persistence and unusual self-assurance (and a good portion of his savings), the plain-spoken father of three has clawed his way to the verge of show business.Mr. Pryce and the animators he hired — “If I didn’t pay for this myself, nobody else was going to,” he said — adapted “Kulipari” from a trilogy of young adult novels he co-wrote after his plans for a frog war film went nowhere. (“Nobody would buy my script, so I thought, ‘Well, let’s try a book deal,” he said.)“You’ve got to believe in yourself,” he said. “I remember looking at one studio guy who wasn’t taking me seriously and saying, ‘Hey, man, I’m actually smarter than you.’” (The “Kulipari” stories, Mr. Pryce said, were inspired by the “creepy” frogs that appeared near his boyhood home in Florida during rainstorms.)At the same time, Mr. Pryce offers a stirring example of old-fashioned gumption. Most retired N.F.L. players, if they go on to second careers at all, stick with what they know: coaching or sports broadcasting.Very few have enough drive left to strike out in a new direction, something that requires enormous energy and focus and carries a lot of reputational risk. “It’s true that a lot of guys don’t want to keep burning the candle at both ends,” Mr. Pryce said.Speaking by phone from Maryland, where he lives with his wife, Sonya, and three teenage children, he added: “To me, at least, there would be nothing worse than doing nothing. My whole life, up until retirement, was regimented with football, and I needed to maintain some kind of discipline. You can’t just sit around watching ‘Judge Judy’ all day.” (Speak for yourself, Trevor.)He said that Hollywood has definitely not been the “sexy good time” he envisioned, although he added that some movie and television executives have gone out of their way to help him. One was Doug Belgrad, the former president of Sony’s Motion Picture Group, who bought the lightning-bolt idea as a possible Adam Sandler vehicle.Mr. Pryce still gets upset at rejection, as recently happened when he pitched video game executives on a “Kulipari”-related concept.“I can still see the stupid look on their faces,” he said, his voice rising. “You fly back home with anger in your veins. And you drink a lot of Scotch. And then you calm down and you start again.”What advice does he have for anyone with similar aspirations?“Never be afraid to call an executive,” he said. “I go through studio and network lists and find the person marked ‘president’ and dial. Remember that you’re also bringing something valuable to the table. It’s not all about them.”With that, Mr. Pryce had to go. His English bulldog, Brixton, had decided to run down the street. (“Dog! Don’t make me come chase you.”) But I had one last question: What happens if “Kulipari: An Army of Frogs” does not, well, strike a chord?His answer was swift: “Not possible.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOn DVDTolstoy’s falsely accused protagonist forgives the man who framed him and dies before he can be set free; Horacia, less saintly than she initially appears, returns to her home city on the island of Mindoro, seeking revenge on the former lover who orchestrated her imprisonment and is now a powerful underworld figure surrounded by bodyguards. While radio bulletins regularly report on abducted millionaires, the poor disappear in other ways and no one cares. Injustice is made apparent as the authorities are shown demolishing shantytowns, seemingly at random.Assuming several different identities, at times something of a compassionate superheroine, Horacia bides her time among the lower depths, befriending squatters and street people. Notable among these garrulous characters is Hollanda, a transgender prostitute (the romantic idol John Lloyd Cruz, like Ms. Santos-Concio, a known star cast against type). Horacia nurses Hollanda, subject to epileptic seizures and beaten nearly to death, back to health. In one unexpected bit of business, their drunken duet of “Sunrise, Sunset” segues into her rendition of another Broadway show tune, “Somewhere.” Like her character, Ms. Santos-Concio is full of surprises. So too Mr. Diaz, who is said to be completing a musical set in 1976, the year martial law was extended in the Philippines.At once stately and unassuming, austere and raunchy, “The Woman Who Left” is largely composed of impressively long takes that are most often static medium shots. (Mr. Diaz served as his own director of photography.) The precisely placed camera rarely moves — and when it does, as with tracking shots exploring the parties and tawdry forms of entertainment on the local beach, the sense of release is in some ways comparable to Horacia’s own.The climate of “Casa de Lava” is ripe and melancholy. The hospital where Mariana brings Leão was once a leper colony; the island was a penal settlement for the exiled enemies of Portugal’s dictatorship. Even as some Europeans stay on, one of whom (Edith Scob) is the widow of a former prisoner, the local residents are compelled to leave, looking for work in Portugal. “Not even the dead can rest here,” somebody says.“Casa de Lava” (which was never commercially released in the United States and has been issued on disc by the adventurous and estimable new label, Grasshopper Film) is laconic and oblique. The action is hauntingly cryptic. Mariana’s motives and actions resist easy interpretation, although Ms. Medeiros, an actress with many expressions who, for most of the movie, wears the same outfit (a short, flimsy red tunic), is never less than convincing. Her vivid presence is matched by that of Cape Verde’s volcanic landscape. Few movies have a stronger sense of place — or placelessness. The narrative is ravishingly tangled. As the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum writes in notes that accompany the disc, “Each beautiful composition — that is to say, each shot — tells a separate story.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAdvertisementMs. Minghella was right about good intentions, which some movie people have plenty of. The discrimination in the entertainment industry isn’t about oversight or a matter of one man giving another a job. It is about systemic bias, some of which can be traced back to the old studio days. From roughly the late 1920s to the mid-1960s, only two women directed for the big studios. And while the studios tended to treat all actors like chattel (some more prized than others), women were treated especially harshly because the same sexism outside the industry can be as unforgiving inside it. We know some of the victims. We also know the immortal female stars who helped build the industry.In her book, Ms. Haskell brilliantly articulated the contradictions that haunt the movies, with their dispiriting truths and transporting fictions. And she wrote of the contradictions that also haunt us: “Through the myths of subjection and sacrifice that were its fictional currency and the machinations of its moguls in the front offices, the film industry maneuvered to keep women in their place; and yet these very myths and this machinery catapulted women into spheres of power beyond the wildest dreams of most of their sex.” Moguls like Louis B. Mayer perpetuated the big lie, but stars like Bette Davis also set us free.AdvertisementI’ve always known that, even when an older woman blew my young teenage mind by saying she didn’t like Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies because she thought they were sexist. I knew what sexism was; the wonderful feminist teachers at my all-girls school made sure we all did. But I didn’t simply love Fred and Ginger films, I also listened to their soundtracks and watched them whenever they played at Theater 80 in the East Village, our local rep house. (I even took tap-dancing lessons!) I was one of those kids, deep in her head and quite content to spend a lot of time alone watching movies in the dark, kind of like now. Years later, I struggled with that love when I started reading feminist film criticism.I’ve been wrestling with the contradictions of movies ever since, sometimes with pleasure and satisfaction, at other times with frustration, exasperation or rage. It can be exhausting. Sometimes, you just want to watch a movie, not keep a running inventory of each affront, every offensive line or beat. Did women direct, write, produce, star? Does the female lead have anything of interest to say? Why is she taking off her underwear for the lovemaking scene while the guy keeps his on? Why is her breast showing? Why is she smiling (always smiling)? Why is she a hooker? Or dead? Is she merely there, kind of like the dog or a pricey lamp, so she can suggest that the hero is also an Everyman?So, I take inventory. Although if I’m lucky, I also bliss out on beauty, grace and art. And I continue to struggle, including with the question of whether it’s possible to separate the art from the artist. My preference has been always to engage with the cinematic object, the visible evidence, as I like to think of it. There is, as we know, plenty of damning evidence right there, in the choices that filmmakers have made, including where they’ve put the camera and who they have put on camera and how. And then there’s the fact that once that title is released, it no longer belongs strictly to the people who own it — it belongs to the viewers, who are the ones who finally give a work its meaning.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to new art shows and some that will be closing soon.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementMathilde Krim, who crusaded against the scourge of AIDS with appeals to conscience that raised funds and international awareness of a disease that has killed more than 39 million people worldwide, died on Monday at her home in Kings Point, N.Y. She was 91.Her death was confirmed by Bennah Serfaty, a spokeswoman for amfAR, the Foundation for AIDS Research, of which Dr. Krim was the founding chairwoman.When the nation learned in the early 1980s that the virus that causes AIDS had begun its terrifying attack upon the human immune system, Dr. Krim, a geneticist and virologist with wide experience in cancer research and a passion for causes, plunged into a fight not only against the virus but also for the civil rights of people who had it.Over the next several decades, she became America’s foremost warrior in the battle against superstitions, fears and prejudices that have stigmatized many people with AIDS, subjecting them to rejection and discrimination. There is still no cure for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, which has become pandemic, although antiretroviral medication can slow the disease and may lead to near-normal life expectancy with prompt diagnosis and treatment.AdvertisementIn 2016, there were more than 36.7 million people, worldwide, infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, or H.I.V., which causes AIDS. That was 300,000 fewer than in 2015, but the cases nevertheless resulted in one million deaths, down from a peak of 1.9 million in 2005.AdvertisementThe virus that causes AIDS is spread by many vectors: through sex, needle-sharing among drug users and accidental needle sticks among medical personnel, as well as through blood transfusions and from mother to infant during pregnancy or breast feeding.In Africa, where the disease originated and where it is most widespread, most transmission is through heterosexual sex.In the early days of the American epidemic, AIDS killed large numbers of hemophiliacs, infected by tainted blood-clotting factors, and Haitians, because the virus had apparently reached the Americas there first.But the American public focused on two other high-risk groups, gay men and drug addicts, people long shunned by family-oriented Americans and the mostly heterosexual establishment.“They felt that this was a disease that resulted from a sleazy lifestyle, drugs or kinky sex — that certain people had learned their lesson and it served them right,” Dr. Krim told The New York Times Magazine in 1988. “That was the attitude, even on the part of respectable foundations that are supposed to be concerned about human welfare.”In his book “The Gay Metropolis: The Landmark History of Gay Life in America” (1997), Charles Kaiser wrote: “One scientist outside the government was more important than any other heterosexual in New York City in sounding the alarm about the growing crisis. Her name was Mathilde Krim.”Money for research and literature to educate the public were needed, and Dr. Krim had access to both. Her husband was the entertainment lawyer Arthur B. Krim, a former chairman of United Artists and Orion Pictures and of the Democratic National Finance Committee. He was a confidant of many national leaders, including Presidents John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter.AdvertisementDr. Krim mobilized a galaxy of friends from the worlds of politics, the arts, entertainment, society and Wall Street. She organized art sales, auctions, fashion shows and other fund-raisers, held benefit parties at her Manhattan townhouse, gave television interviews, lobbied government officials and testified before Congress.And she dazzled them with her scientific knowledge, grounded in her doctoral studies at the University of Geneva, and her dignified appeals to conscience, in many languages. The daughter of parents of Swiss, Italian and Austrian heritage and a convert to Judaism who had joined the Zionist underground, Dr. Krim spoke Italian, German, French and Hebrew as well as English.In 1983, she and others created the AIDS Medical Foundation to raise money and support AIDS research. It often acted faster than federal agencies, which could take a year to process grants. In 1985, her group and another in Los Angeles merged to form the American Foundation for AIDS Research, or amfAR. Elizabeth Taylor was its founding international chairwoman, and Barbra Streisand, Woody Allen and Warren Beatty lent their names.The foundation became the nation’s pre-eminent private supporter of AIDS research, prevention, treatment and advocacy. In 2005, when Dr. Krim stepped down as founding chairwoman, it was renamed the Foundation for AIDS Research, or amfAR, reflecting its international scope. The foundation has raised and invested an estimated $517 million for thousands of programs.Using the foundation as her platform, Dr. Krim promoted needle-exchange programs and the use of condoms and other safe-sex practices; castigated religious leaders who denounced homosexuality as immoral; fought mandatory AIDS testing that might be used to persecute gay people; opposed the use of placebos in experimental drug trials, saying patients might be dead before outcomes were proved; and campaigned for laws to bar discrimination against gay people in housing and employment.Her effectiveness derived partly from her credentials. Besides earning her doctorate in biology, she had served on White House commissions and conducted research at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and at the Cornell Medical College and Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York.But it also arose from a moral perspective that could supersede science. She argued, for example, that heterosexuals and homosexuals were all one big risk group. American epidemiologists did not concur at the time, because so many victims were gay, but she was partly right: Although gay sex now accounts for most transmission in the United States, about 24 percent is through heterosexual sex, and women bear the brunt of that, often through sex with partners who conceal the fact that they are bisexual or injecting drugs.Dr. Krim sometimes waded into deep political waters. In 1990, Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York asked her advice on naming a city health commissioner. She recommended Indiana’s commissioner, Dr. Woodrow A. Myers Jr.AdvertisementBut gay groups objected when they learned that Indiana, by law, recorded the names of people with AIDS and could even quarantine those who knowingly had unprotected sex. Although recording the names of carriers and tracing their contacts is standard practice in fighting venereal diseases, and though quarantine has been used to control outbreaks of, for example, drug-resistant tuberculosis, the advocates felt such measures would be stigmatizing.Dr. Krim and others on a search committee first stepped back for a reassessment, then re-endorsed Dr. Myers, then withdrew the endorsement. Dr. Myers was appointed anyway, and Dr. Krim found herself at odds with longtime allies. But her admirers tempered their ire with respect.“I think she’s exceptionally naïve politically,” said the playwright Larry Kramer, a prominent advocate for people with AIDS. “We are all very angry with her, so far as one can ever get angry with Mathilde, because we love her so.”She was born Mathilde Galland in Como, Italy, on July 9, 1926, to Eugene Galland, a Swiss-Italian, and the former Elizabeth Krause, an Austrian. Her father was an agronomist. The family moved to Geneva when Mathilde was 6.At the University of Geneva, Mathilde was a brilliant student of biology and genetics. Appalled by newsreels of Nazi concentration camps in 1945, she sought out Jewish activists, joined the Zionist underground Irgun and spent a summer smuggling guns over the French border for resistance fighters against British rule in Palestine.After earning a bachelor’s degree in 1948, she married an Irgun comrade, David Danon, a Bulgarian medical student, and converted to Judaism. The couple had a daughter, Daphna, in 1951, and in 1953, after Mathilde received her doctorate, they emigrated to Israel, where the marriage ended in divorce.In 1954, she joined the research team of the German-born Israeli molecular biologist Leo Sachs at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot. She studied cancer-causing viruses and helped write a dozen papers, including one by Dr. Sachs that laid groundwork for the prenatal diagnostic technique of amniocentesis, detecting gender and possible defects in a fetus.She married Mr. Krim, a Weizmann trustee, in 1958 and moved to New York the next year, exchanging pioneer life in a perpetual war zone for the Upper East Side and an illustrious social milieu.AdvertisementRestless for challenges, Dr. Krim resumed research — at Cornell Medical College from 1959 to 1962 and at Sloan Kettering from 1962 to 1985. She thought she glimpsed a cure for cancer in interferons — proteins released by body cells to fight pathogens — but it was not the cure-all she had envisioned. She was later an adjunct professor at Columbia University.Dr. Krim’s many awards included the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Awarded by President Bill Clinton in 2000, it recognized her “extraordinary compassion and commitment.”In his book “The Gay Metropolis,” Mr. Kaiser wrote that Dr. Krim had been disturbed by the initial indifference to the AIDS crisis in the 1980s in part because it carried echoes of her past.“The reaction of many of her heterosexual friends,” he wrote, “reminded her of the stories she had heard about Jews during the war, before she knew any herself, that they were dirty and evil and deserved to die.“Dr. Krim was determined to prevent America from using AIDS to stigmatize homosexuals,” he continued, “and with the help of many of her famous Hollywood friends, she would be magnificently successful.”An earlier version of a picture caption with this obituary misstated the actress Elizabeth Taylor’s position with amfAR. As the obituary says, she was the founding international chairwoman, not the founding chairwoman. (That title was held by Dr. Krim.)An earlier version of this obituary referred incompletely to the founding of the AIDS Medical Foundation in 1983. It was founded by Dr. Krim and several others; she was not the sole founder.Donald G. McNeil Jr. contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »