AdvertisementDUBLIN — The Irish are renowned for their way with words. But the nation of bardic poetry, James Joyce and W. B. Yeats has proved a latecomer to the wordiest of music genres, hip-hop.“It’s always been corny to rap and be from Dublin,” Rejjie Snow said in an interview in his dressing-room in the Olympia Theater, a plush 19th-century concert hall in the Irish capital. “I don’t know why. Maybe it’s the accent, maybe it’s the lifestyle. When I told people I wanted to rap as a kid, they were like, ‘Oh you want to rap?’”But Rejjie Snow’s eccentric choice of career has been vindicated. A few hours later, one of the rising stars of Irish hip-hop, 24, stood in the spotlight on the Olympia’s stage, microphone in hand, faced by a young, excited crowd chanting “Rejjie, Rejjie” and rapping verses from his newly released debut album, “Dear Annie,” back at him. At one point, a teenager at the front hauled herself onto the barrier separating audience from stage to shout, “Rejjie, I love you!”The first rap acts in Ireland emerged in the early 1990s. But it has taken until now for hip-hop culture to start flourishing, with rappers and groups proliferating across the country. The situation resembles Irish rock in the 1970s, when bands sprung up in a grass-roots modernization of Irish music.AdvertisementTwo forces lie behind Irish rap’s rise. One is a new generation of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean, attracted to Ireland during its “Celtic Tiger” boom years in the 1990s and 2000s. Their numbers are tiny by the standards of other European countries — in the 2016 census, just under 65,000 people identified as black in a nation of almost 4.7 million — but talent in the emerging music scene is disproportionately drawn from among them. Rejjie Snow, whose given name is Alexander Anyaegbunam, has a Nigerian father and an Irish-Jamaican mother.AdvertisementCasey Walsh, 20, and his childhood friend Alex Sheehan, 21, make up the duo Versatile, a north Dublin take on the strain of delinquent rap acts running back from Eminem to the Beastie Boys. They made a surprise appearance at Rejjie Snow’s Olympia Theatre gig, to a fervid response from the audience.“Ireland never really took to the hip-hop music, it was just a select few,” Mr. Walsh said in a Skype interview. “But now, festival lineups are just hip-hop acts. It’s crazy.”“I used to cringe when I heard Irish rap,” he added. “Stuff about how the government’s robbing us and our lives are so bad.”“It’s kind of repetitive,” Mr. Sheehan added.“And no one wants to hear it,” Mr. Walsh said.“Compared to two years ago it’s so much better,” Celaviedmai, a 25-year-old rapper from Galway whose given name is Maimouna Salif, said in a telephone interview. “It’s seen as a real career, it’s not seen as a hobby or a pastime.”AdvertisementCelaviedmai is one of a handful of female rappers in Ireland, in what is still a male-dominated scene. “Ireland is so small that it’s so difficult to do things on your own,” she said. “There aren’t enough resources, or they’re too expensive.”The positive side-effect of limited resources is artistic ingenuity. Irish rap abounds in different styles. Rejjie Snow’s songs are dreamy and off-center. Socially conscious rap is common; its criminal-minded flip side, street rap, does exist, but to a lesser degree. Grime, a vibrant Britain-based offshoot of rap, is beginning to make its presence felt. Other acts fuse hip-hop with Afrobeats, R&B and dance music.The free-for-all mirrors wider rap trends. The last decade has seen a breakdown of the importance of region to hip-hop, its reliance on place as a marker of a particular sound. The internet has collapsed distances between scenes. But Irish rap’s lack of definition also points to a fluidity within Irish identity.“Thought I had to be American, thought I had to be English, everything else but Irish,” the Rusangano Family, a trio from Limerick, rap on one of their tracks. In an interview, Godknows Jonas, 27, a member of the group, said, “That’s a very personal line, because identity is something that has always been a confusing one as someone who got here from Zimbabwe.”“When I was younger, I’d feel like I didn’t fit in with my friends, and then I’d go home and feel I didn’t fit in with my parents: They were still holding onto the culture from back home,” he added. “For me, writing those lines was like me staking a claim of who I am. I’m proud to be Irish, I’m proud to be African, I’m proud to be who I am.”What it means to be Irish in 2018 is up for grabs. “Our identity as Irish people is socially and culturally evolving,” said Mango, whose given name is Karl Mangan, a 27-year-old rapper who makes grime music with the producer Adam Fogarty, 35, who is known as Mathman.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The process is not without tensions. In rap, they center on the question of accent. American or mid-Atlantic accents are not uncommon among Irish rappers. Rejjie Snow, who left Dublin at 17 to live in Florida, is an example, though he described his own rapping voice as “neutral.”Mr. Fogarty has his own views about how an Irish M.C. should sound. He said there was “a quite significant part of our hip-hop history where artists were using fake accents. Slowly but surely, there has been a shift away from that.”Lilo Blues, 21, a member of the Dublin rap trio the Hare Squead, groaned when the issue was raised. He grew up in southern Dublin listening to American hip-hop and R&B. “I didn’t have anything in Ireland to grasp onto in terms of urban culture or sound,” he said. “It’s not even conscious. It’s not like, ‘I’ll put this phrase in so they can tell I’m from Ireland.’ No, it’s natural.”At Rejjie Snow’s gig at the Olympia, issues of accent and music industry infrastructure faded into the background. Here was Irish rap’s acceleration in its distilled form, a propulsive release of energy. Thinking about the destination could wait for another day. “Yo Dublin, are you ready for Rejjie Snow?” the D.J. shouted. The answering roar drowned out the beats.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byA year ago, Comcast was licking its wounds.Until now.The acquisition of DreamWorks Animation would fit squarely into the entertainment strategy, allowing Comcast to build on an already successful part of the company.“It has been very clear that they can’t do many deals within cable, so their focus is on organic growth and operational excellence,” said Amy Yong, an analyst with the Macquarie Group.“DreamWorks would be big in the context of the studio business, Ms. Yong said.During a conference call Wednesday morning, Comcast executives declined to comment on the speculated deal activity. In response to a question about the relative values of the distribution and content businesses, Brian L. Roberts, the chairman and chief executive of Comcast, said that the company was stronger because of its position in both.“These things go up and down, and the relationship between the two in terms of carriage disputes and other things,” he said. “At any one time, one part of the ecosystem could be doing better than the other part of the ecosystem. But in the end, we’re bringing great experiences to consumers in either content, in innovative distribution technologies, and that’s how we’re running our company.”Comcast’s cable business reported revenue growth of 6.7 percent for the quarter, adding 53,000 video customers and 438,000 high-speed-Internet customers.Revenues increased 3.9 percent in the NBCUniversal group, driven by an uptick in revenues in its cable television and theme park businesses.In some ways, DreamWorks Animation is a why-not acquisition for Comcast. The price would be small. To put it in perspective, a deal for DreamWorks Animation would be about one-fifteenth the size of Comcast’s failed bid for Time Warner Cable and about a tenth the size of its $30 billion acquisition of the entertainment group NBCUniversal, which closed five years ago.Also, very few content companies, particularly in family entertainment, are available to purchase.DreamWorks Animation would give Comcast’s entertainment business an immediate lift, with its established animation studio and a growing television business. It also has a grasp on the elusive millennial market with its part ownership of AwesomenessTV, the producer and distributor of programming aimed primarily at teenage girls.At the same time, it would give Comcast a gateway to international growth. DreamWorks Animation has aggressively courted Chinese regulators and audiences, building an animation studio in Shanghai called Oriental DreamWorks.DreamWorks Animation is perhaps most valuable to Comcast as a way to compete with the Walt Disney Company in the theme park business. Since buying NBCUniversal, Comcast has poured billions into its Universal resorts.But Universal does not own many family movie franchises, the kind that can be turned into popular theme park rides and fill hotel rooms, and has instead had to pay steep fees to rent characters, including its most popular draw, Harry Potter, which belongs to Warner Bros.DreamWorks Animation would provide Comcast with the rights to “Shrek,” “Kung Fu Panda” and “Madagascar.” Comcast is also building a $3.3 billion theme park in Beijing. Unfettered access to “Kung Fu Panda” could assist that effort, analysts said.During the conference call on Wednesday, Stephen B. Burke, NBCUniversal’s chief executive and senior vice president of Comcast, said that focusing on building film franchises had been an explicit strategy for the company. He noted that Comcast had only one franchise five years ago in “The Fast and the Furious” action films, and it now has eight and is trying to build more. He said the company reviewed its five-year plan for the film group on Tuesday and spent half the time talking about “how to take care of franchises.”The deal would require that Comcast executives return to Washington to, once again, lobby for approval.“It probably doesn’t present as big of a regulatory issue,” Ms. Yong said, “but it could present a conflict of interest because of DreamWorks’ agreement with Netflix and the ownership of AwesomenessTV.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byBut at Tory Burch’s show at the Whitney Museum of American Art on Tuesday morning, they did nothing but gush about what it was like to appear at fashion week, getting booked by brands like Burch and Cartier. (The sisters sang at an event for the jewelry brand earlier in the week.)“Ms. Tory invited us here,” said Chloe Bailey, 18, wearing navy and white pants from Tory Burch’s sport line along with a matching V-neck blouse, and a blue and red jacket that looked like a cross between a blazer and a sports jersey. “We’ll be performing at her dinner tonight, which is going to be really fun. We’re just so, so excited.”“So, so excited,” said Halle, 16, who wore a navy and white dress from the brand’s sport line.In April, Chloe x Halle released an EP of their own material that draws inspiration from the space age minimalism of Aaliyah and Cassie. This summer, they toured Europe with Beyoncé. In November they’ll go back on the road, with Andra Day.How does Halle balance work and school?“I’m home-schooled,” she said. “It’s great for my schedule, but with everything so busy, I realized I have to get ahead and work on the weekends and stuff. So that’s just something that I have to do. But I’m happy that I have that education.”“Finish school!” her sister said, nodding.Around 9:30 a.m., a half-hour after the Tory Burch show’s call time, the models began their march before the crowd in printed caftanlike tops and prairie skirts that recalled frontier America (think: Willa Cather by way of Lily Pulitzer).The Bailey twins approved, saying afterward that they thought the show was “so cool.” They loved seeing how fast the clothes come out in real life.“I’ve already got these girls in the magazine,” said Laura Brown, the recently hired editor in chief of InStyle.More reporters arrived with more questions.Being similar in age and size, do they steal each other’s clothes?“Absolutely,” said Halle, who added that there is also much theft of coconut oil.What style advice had Beyoncé provided? “Stay comfortable,” Halle said. “Stay ourselves.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementThe gala’s planning committee first invited the band to play in 2009 for the inauguration of President Obama, and then again in 2013 for Mr. Obama’s re-election. B Street was such a hit that the gala organizers signed a contract in 2015 with the band to play this year — before Mr. Trump even announced his bid for the presidency.The band had no idea at the time that it would be playing at a Trump celebration, but that has not stopped Springsteen fans from voicing displeasure: They sent “several hundred” angry emails about the gig to B Street’s founder and keyboardist, Willie Forte, he said in an interview on Thursday.Advertisement“I never saw this coming — this part coming,” Mr. Forte said of the uproar. “Are you asking me if, you know, if I would’ve reconsidered if I could go back in the beginning and I knew this was going to happen? Sure.”AdvertisementMr. Forte said that he and his bandmates would cancel the performance if Mr. Springsteen asked them to but that they had not heard from his team, “thank God, so far.”He said B Street was not “a political band,” but rather played out of a love for the Garden State and to pay tribute to Mr. Springsteen, a man some might call the king of New Jersey.“I’ve gotten pushback from Springsteen fans that don’t know the reputation of our band or have never seen the band or talked to any of us,” Mr. Forte said.Organizers of the gala staunchly defended the band’s participation.“Springsteen music is magic to the ears of our New Jersey members and guests, regardless of party,” Nancy Blades Fatemi, executive director of the New Jersey State Society, which holds the gala, said in a statement. “It’s like, when you look at a Rembrandt or read Shakespeare, do you care what their politics were?“You can’t have an inaugural ball with a Jersey Shore boardwalk theme and not have great Jersey music,” she said. “Either the band or the D.J. will be playing Springsteen, Four Seasons, Frank Sinatra, the music legends that make us proud as New Jerseyans.”Ms. Fatemi also said of B Street, “We consider them the official band of the New Jersey State Society and would not consider any other group.”The band formed in 1980 as Backstreets but changed its name to B Street after a lawsuit over the name in the late ’80s, Mr. Forte said. The band has performed Mr. Springsteen’s music thousands of times, according to Mr. Forte, including at Mr. Christie’s first inauguration as governor. Mr. Christie is an avowed Springsteen fan, even if he is on the opposite side of the political spectrum.Advertisement“We’re just a little satellite,” Mr. Forte said. “A bunch of working-class musicians, you know, around the big sun. You know, I mean we circle around the Springsteen sphere a little bit.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Forte said that after Mr. Trump’s election victory, he considered pulling the band from the gala but reconsidered.“I grew up with a family that taught me that when you give a commitment, when you make a promise, when you sign a contract, you go through it,” he said. “I mean, I understand circumstances around it. But I don’t know if I have that type of integrity to break a contract on somebody, you know, in good faith.”“I think that a lot of the tension is because there’s no entertainment there,” said Mr. Forte, who declined to say whom he voted for. “Because everybody else is gone, we went way, way up on the top of the list and all of a sudden, we became the bullet, the target.”Mr. Springsteen himself has ratcheted up criticism of the president-elect. Earlier this month, he told Marc Maron, the host of the popular podcast “WTF With Marc Maron,” that he was scared of a Trump presidency.Advertisement[Laughter]See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byThe last time the Olympics came to South Korea, in 1988, Korean pop music was awash in soft-focus ballads, a gentle and demure version of the sounds that were taking hold elsewhere in the world. This year, the country is hosting the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, and is greeting it with a vastly evolved approach to pop music and culture.South Korea’s prime export is K-pop, the umbrella term used to describe the ecstatic, vibrant, outrageously polished and often hyperreal version of pop music that dominates the country’s music industry, thanks to entertainment conglomerates that aggressively recruit and train young talent. The genre is known for pinpoint precision, flamboyant fashion and smoothed-over borrowings from American R&B and hip-hop that, taken in total, have amounted to the creation of a style and sound that’s unmistakable, and without global peer. Along with K-drama and various other youth-driven pop culture offsprings, it’s become essential to South Korea’s global image.Here are 10 songs spanning two and a half decades of K-pop history, an incomplete and highly abridged history of the genre from its most serious to its most colorful.A new jack swing anthem from the group widely credited with beginning the innovations that would eventually lead to what is now understood as K-pop. “Nan Arayo” has it all: tender soul harmonies, rat-tat-tat drum machine beats, a Flavor Flav sample and a video that sets hip-hop dance routines to a hard-rock guitar riff.Just as the Backstreet Boys were honing the idea of the contemporary boy band in the U.S., H.O.T. was establishing the rules in South Korea: chipper melodies and coordinated outfits you could see from space. Though the group was known for tackling serious topics in its music, this early single was delightful fluff.A midcareer hit from Diva, which made its mark as one of the first successful female rap outfits in the country. By this point, the trio’s music was polished, and some of the bite of its early singles had been quelled, but “Yo Yo” still had verve and snap.By the turn of the millennium, boy bands were the currency of K-pop, but g.o.d. imbued that structure with dignity and emotional grounding. “Lies” is one of the group’s biggest singles, a throbbing ballad with a slow-burn music video that’s unerringly sad.Since getting discovered at a talent search at the age of 11, BoA has become one of the most durable and versatile K-pop stars, dabbling in R&B, rock, pop and more. This is one of her more conventional songs, a tortured ballad that showcases her plaintive voice.There can be a saccharine sweetness to K-pop, and bubble gum is an aesthetic the genre doesn’t shy away from. This is often found in its purest form in girl groups. In the last decade, few have been more popular or influential than Girls’ Generation. The aerobic “Gee” is one of its early hits.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byCommon SensePitched battles between superheroes with huge fan bases? Check.Enough explosions to flatten several Manhattans? Check.Budgets over $250 million, not counting lavish marketing campaigns?Double-check.On paper, this season’s big superhero action films — “Captain America: Civil War” and “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” — from the rival studios Disney and Warner Bros. could almost be the same movie, so similar are their plots, action sequences and allusions to heavyweight themes of topical interest.Still, “Batman v Superman” would seem to have the edge where it really matters to the studios, which is at the box office. It opened first (on March 25). It had the two most valuable intellectual properties in the comic book universe, appearing together in starring roles. And it had enough A-list Hollywood talent to fill a multiplex.Yet the results are in, and it’s not even close. The theatrical run of “Batman v Superman” is all but over, with a worldwide box office gross of $871 million. “Captain America” has surged past $1 billion in just three weeks.Warner insists its film will earn a profit. But given that the studio gets only about half the box-office gross, any profit margin will be slim after deducting the film’s enormous production and marketing costs. And that has to be a disappointment considering what the studio must have expected. (Marvel’s “Avengers” topped $1.5 billion in 2012.)More worrisome for Warner and its parent, Time Warner Inc., is that “Batman v Superman” was supposed to reboot the entire DC Comics universe and create a multibillion-dollar superhero franchise to rival Marvel’s. Now that’s in question.“This is a significant misstep for the DC brand,” said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst for Cowen & Company. “They’ve damaged their credibility with their audience. I’m not saying they can’t recover, but their next few movies had better be really good.”At one level, the explanation for the outcome is simple: “Captain America” is a much better movie. After a marathon of superhero moviegoing in Times Square this week, I can attest to that.As a baby boomer who grew up glued to the Adam West “Batman” series that ran on TV from 1966 to 1968, I’m hardly a member of the high-testosterone teenage target audience. But I like a superhero blockbuster from time to time, and I appreciate good characters who convey some development over time, and a coherent (even if far-fetched) plot.All of which “Batman v Superman” lacked. Despite some arresting visuals, the film focuses so intently on the flaws that drive its titular superheroes into battle that it manages to undermine the appeal of both characters. That left me with no one to root for and indifferent to the outcome. What’s a superhero movie without a hero?“Captain America” sidestepped that problem by never calling into question the essential goodness of its hero characters, instead having them take sides on an issue over which reasonable minds might differ: Should heroes be subject to United Nations oversight?The starkly different outcomes show how difficult it is to make a successful blockbuster, even for a studio with an enviable track record like Warner Bros. (“Harry Potter,” “Lord of the Rings”). Sony faltered with its latest Spider-Man installment and forged a partnership with Marvel allowing its superhero to return to the Marvel fold. Fox has at times struggled with its X-Men franchise.Much of the credit goes to Kevin Feige, the 42-year-old president of Marvel Studios, who runs the studio with an unusual degree of artistic independence. He reports to Alan Horn, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, who gives him wide latitude. (Mr. Horn was pushed out as president of Warner Bros. even after overseeing the successful “Dark Knight” Batman trilogy.)People who know him told me Mr. Feige lives and breathes the Marvel universe and has a deep and intuitive understanding of its characters and their fans. “He’s a total film and comic book buff,” said Michael Nathanson, a veteran Hollywood analyst and a partner at MoffettNathanson.While individual directors put their stamp on Marvel films, they ultimately reflect Mr. Feige’s sensibility, and he got the sole producer credit for “Captain America: Civil War.”“He’s the most underappreciated asset in Hollywood,” Mr. Creutz said. “What he’s done is nothing short of a miracle.”By contrast, no one seems sure exactly who is responsible for “Batman v Superman.”Warner has long been known as a director’s studio, meaning ultimate creative control lies with the director, which was presumably the case with the director of “Batman v Superman,” Zack Snyder.Still, “it felt like filmmaking by committee,” Mr. Creutz said. “You can’t just do it by formula. That’s not how creativity works. You need someone with a vision who can make something great. There are only a limited number of people who can do that.”Mr. Snyder may not be one of those people. He previously directed the 2013 Superman reintroduction “Man of Steel,” which wasn’t exactly a resounding success. It grossed about $668 million, and just 75 percent of the audience on Rotten Tomatoes liked it.“I haven’t studied his work, but when Zack Snyder was named, I heard doubts about whether he was the right director for this movie,” Mr. Nathanson said. “He didn’t have the track record to deliver a movie this important.”Mr. Creutz agreed: “Looking at this objectively, he wasn’t the right choice.”The film had two producers: Deborah Snyder, the director’s wife, and Charles Roven, a veteran of Warner’s hugely successful Batman trilogy. But neither works for DC Entertainment. (Geoff Johns, DC’s chief creative officer, was one of six executive producers, along with Christopher Nolan, who directed the Batman trilogy, and Steven Mnuchin, Donald Trump’s national finance chairman.)In trying to emulate Marvel’s approach, Warner may also have been trying to accomplish too much in one film. In addition to putting Batman and Superman into the same film, four other DC characters, all destined for starring roles in future movies, make at least cameo appearances: Wonder Woman, Aquaman, the Flash and Cyborg.Critics objected to the blatant product placement. Wonder Woman seems awkwardly gerrymandered into the plot. Batman delivers a ponderous final speech that could (and probably will) run as a trailer for the forthcoming “Justice League: Part One.”Marvel, too, teases future films (“Spider-Man” and “Black Panther” in “Civil War”) but seems more adept at it.Marvel has invested many years and billions of dollars building its stable of characters. “Audiences have been with these characters for eight to nine years,” Mr. Nathanson said. “They’ve been on a journey with them.”“Marvel,” Mr. Creutz said, “introduced its characters in stand-alone movies. Then it did the big tie-in movie with multiple characters. Warner said, ‘Let’s start with the tie-in movie.’ But multihero and multivillain movies are very hard to pull off.”“We’ve heard from the critics and the fans and the filmmakers who worked on this,” said Dee Dee Myers, head of corporate communications at Warner Bros. “We try to learn from every film and make the best movie we can the next time out. We feel we’re in a good position. We’re very excited about ‘Suicide Squad’ coming out in August and ‘Wonder Woman,’” which is scheduled for June 2017.“Batman v Superman” is just one film, and no one I spoke to faults Warner’s DC strategy. “What Warner is trying to do makes a ton of sense,” Mr. Nathanson said. But execution is difficult. “Hopefully, the saga isn’t over,” he said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementIn 2010, when the Justice Department allowed the two most dominant companies in the live music business — Live Nation and Ticketmaster — to merge, many greeted the news with dread.Live Nation was already the world’s biggest concert promoter. Ticketmaster had for years been the leading ticket provider. Critics warned that the merger would create an industry monolith, one capable of crippling competitors in the ticketing business.Federal officials tried to reassure the skeptics. They pointed to a consent decree, or legal settlement, they had negotiated as part of the merger approval. Its terms were strict, they said: It would boost competition and block monopolistic behavior by the new, larger Live Nation.“There will be enough air and sunlight in this space for strong competitors to take root, grow and thrive,” said the country’s top antitrust regulator, Assistant Attorney General Christine A. Varney. And she went further, suggesting that reduced ticket service fees, even lower ticket prices, might be on the horizon.AdvertisementEight years after the merger, the ticketing business is still dominated by Live Nation and its operations extend into nearly every aspect of the concert world.Now Department of Justice officials are looking into serious accusations about Live Nation’s behavior in the marketplace.Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Top 100 U.S. Concert ArenasTICKETED BY TICKETMASTERBy 2016 total tickets sold0250,000500,000750,0001 millionTICKETS SOLDTOP 101.1,053,6752.757,1413.701,6014.627,0265.591,9546.577,0907.574,0488.515,1439.509,47310.494,843Top 100 U.S. Concert ArenasTICKETED BY TICKETMASTERBy 2016 total tickets sold0250,000500,000750,0001 millionTICKETS SOLDTOP 101.1,053,6752.757,1413.701,6014.627,0265.591,9546.577,0907.574,0488.515,1439.509,47310.494,843Top 100 U.S. Concert ArenasTICKETED BY TICKETMASTERBy 2016 total tickets sold0250,000500,000750,0001 millionTOP 10TICKETS SOLDTOP 101.1,053,6752.757,1413.701,6014.627,0265.591,9546.577,0907.574,0488.515,1439.509,47310.494,843In the Atlanta case, the complaint stems from a 2013 tour by the band Matchbox Twenty. Live Nation bypassed the Gwinnett Center, a popular arena outside the city, for another venue in town.AdvertisementGwinnett’s booking director, Dan Markham, worried his venue was being punished, according to emails he wrote at the time. The center had just replaced Ticketmaster with a service controlled by AEG.“Don’t abandon Gwinnett,” he wrote to a Live Nation talent coordinator. “If there’s an issue or issues let’s address.”“Issue?” the Live Nation coordinator wrote back. “Three letters. Can you guess what they are?”Live Nation says that, no matter what its employee wrote, the decision to bypass the center was not punitive. The other venue was managed by Live Nation and simply fit more people. But the following year, Live Nation cut the number of tours it brought to Gwinnett in half, from four to two.Live Nation described the drop as a routine fluctuation. But Mr. Markham later said in an email that he had expected the drop-off because Live Nation “warned us that they would put us in a literal boycott.”AEG provided The New York Times with copies of those emails, and others, to support its account of threats.“What happened in Atlanta is just one example of what has been occurring much more broadly,” said Ted Fikre, the chief legal officer for AEG.Live Nation officials say they never threaten or retaliate. They dismissed the complaints as tactical, deliberate mischaracterizations by AEG.Advertisement“You have a disgruntled competitor that is trying to explain their loss around the boogeyman that there were threats made that nobody can document,” said Daniel M. Wall, Live Nation’s antitrust lawyer.The bloodletting between Live Nation and AEG has grown fierce in recent years and rippled through the industry. Last month, another of Mr. Wall’s clients, the heavy-metal icon Ozzy Osbourne, sued AEG on antitrust grounds, saying that it tried to bar him from playing its O2 arena in London, unless he played its Staples Center in Los Angeles.AEG said its policy was a response to Live Nation’s steering concerts to its Los Angeles rival, the Forum.The Justice Department’s inquiries into possible antitrust violations have gone beyond the bitter rivalry, with regulators in the past year looking into reports of Live Nation threats at venues that AEG does not manage: at the H-E-B Center outside Austin, Tex.; and at Boston’s TD Garden, according to executives familiar with the federal review.Justice officials declined to comment on the status of their inquiries. Several of the venue owners have denied the accounts of threats reported by others.The inquiries come as Justice officials review two more proposed mergers of huge companies — AT&T with Time Warner, and the Walt Disney Company with 21st Century Fox. In discussing those proposals, the department’s new antitrust chief has pointed to the Live Nation deal and several other mergers as problematic because, he said, they relied too much on the federal government’s ability to police corporate behavior.“Even if we wanted to do that, we often don’t have the skills or the tools to do so effectively,” Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim said in a speech last November.Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney General’s Antitrust Bureau, was blunter in assessing whether the government had done enough to ensure a vital ticketing marketplace.Advertisement“The Consent Decree was supposed to prevent Live Nation from using its strength in live entertainment to foreclose competition in ticketing,” said Mr. Buffier. “But it is now widely seen as the poster child for the problems that arise when enforcers adopt these temporary fixes to limit the anticompetitive effects of deeply problematic vertical mergers.”The live music business has long operated as an ecosystem where multiple parties work together to put on a show.Promoters front the money for a concert or tour and take on the greatest risk.Talent agents and managers negotiate artists’ fees.Venues rent space and hire ticketing companies to handle their events.These were long separate fiefs. But Live Nation now operates in all of them, so it’s the rare music fan who does not run into the company somewhere in any concert-going experience.It also draws more fire from music fans than any other company, in large part because it is blamed — unfairly in many respects — for skyrocketing ticket prices and the size of those much-maligned ticket service fees, both costs it only partly influences.Though the price of tickets has soared, that trajectory predates the merger and is driven by many factors, including artists’ reliance on touring income as record sales have plummeted.Alan B. Krueger, a professor of economics and public policy at Princeton University, said that fan demand was the primary force behind higher prices and the money was drawing a broader array of acts to the stage.AdvertisementLive Nation typically locks up much of the best talent by offering generous advances to artists and giving them a huge percentage of the ticket revenue from the door.Why? Because it can afford to. It has so many other related revenue streams on which to draw: sponsorships for the tour, concessions at venues, and, most of all, ticket fees. The fees supply about half of Live Nation’s earnings, according to company reports.Ticketmaster said it no longer sets the final fee. It just negotiates a set per-ticket charge. The rest of the fee is added on by the venues and sometimes promoters too. Yet at many concerts Live Nation is not just the ticket seller, but also the promoter, the venue operator or even the artist’s manager, with an opportunity to collect at every juncture.Live Nation is the world’s largest concert promoter. But since its merger with Ticketmaster in 2010, it has become much more than that, with a “flywheel” business model that takes in a diverse set of revenue streams.ConcertsThe core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist.VenuesOwning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years.TicketingWhile most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold.SponsorshipLive Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com.Artist ManagementLive Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne.Other DealsFor a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation.ConcertsVenuesTicketingThe core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist.Owning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years.While most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold.SponsorshipArtist ManagementOther DealsLive Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com.Live Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne.For a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation.ConcertsVenuesTicketingThe core of Live Nation’s business, but the segment with its lowest profit margins. As the promoter, Live Nation takes the primary financial risk for a show, while most of the money from the face value of a ticket goes to the artist.Owning or managing a concert venue lets the company collect money from parking, food and V.I.P. packages. How much? Last year Live Nation reported $24 in “ancillary revenue per fan” at its amphitheaters — up nearly 20 percent in two years.While most of the face value of a ticket goes to the performers, the fees added to it are a coveted profit center. Ticketmaster, venues and sometimes promoters share in this income. In recent years, Live Nation has also entered the secondary market, competing with StubHub and others to collect additional fees whenever a ticket is resold.SponsorshipArtist ManagementOther DealsLive Nation’s scale — 86 million people around the world attend its concerts each year, the company says — makes it attractive to advertisers, who pay to reach its customers at a venue or on a tour or on websites like Ticketmaster.com.Live Nation has built a division of executives who manage the careers of more than 500 artists, including U2, Madonna, Miley Cyrus, Britney Spears and Lil Wayne.For a handful of superstar acts, like U2 and Madonna, Live Nation has made long-term touring deals. And with Jay-Z, the company has a multifaceted joint-venture, Roc Nation.Take, for example, an April 2016 concert in Nashville where Ticketmaster added a $14.75 fee on top of a $36 ticket for a show in an amphitheater Live Nation owned. Even Michael Rapino, Live Nation’s chief executive, called that fee “not defendable,” according to an internal email.Holding onto venues is critical to a company that relies so much on ticket fees. Mr. Rapino has repeatedly boasted to Wall Street that the number of venues it tickets around the world — a statistic it does not release — is constantly growing.“The space is more competitive than it’s ever been,” he said. “We’re working harder each and every year.”AEG acknowledges that some part of its difficulty in securing contracts is rooted in its own missteps in developing a competitive ticketing system. And certainly, at the lower reaches of the market, Ticketmaster’s share is not nearly so commanding.AdvertisementBut it’s clear that Ticketmaster, by whatever means, has kept its rivals from gaining a meaningful foothold in the market for major music venues.Preserving competition in the ticketing market was a chief concern for regulators when the Live Nation-Ticketmaster merger was proposed in 2009. Live Nation, which had long stayed in its lane as a promoter and venue operator, had just begun to sell tickets and was taking on that role at some 110 venues.If the two companies merged, that competition — a healthy marketplace development, as regulators saw it — would disappear.So, as part of the consent decree, Justice officials ordered steps that they hoped would enable two new robust challengers. One measure required Ticketmaster to license its ticketing software — the proprietary system that allowed it to service swarms of customers when a popular concert went on sale — to its competitor AEG.It was also required to divest a ticketing subsidiary, Paciolan, to another competitor.But, as it turned out, AEG never licensed the Ticketmaster software because, it said, it did not view the technology as cutting edge. The company that Ticketmaster sold off, Paciolan, remained a niche player in the music end of the business.“It has now been eight years since the merger and the world does not look a lot different,” said John E. Kwoka Jr., a professor of economics at Northeastern University and a longtime critic of the merger.Ms. Varney declined to comment on the effectiveness of the agreement she had shepherded. But the antitrust division’s former chief counsel, Gene Kimmelman, said the Justice Department had been hampered in what it could do to create competition in an industry already so dominated by one company.“The people who came in to oversee this transaction were very interested in doing everything imaginable to create more competition in ticketing in the marketplace,” he said, “and were frustrated that the options were unbelievably limited.”AdvertisementFew buildings in Louisville are as important to the local economy as the KFC Yum! Center, a 22,000-seat arena on the banks of the Ohio River that features a mix of events, from Louisville Cardinals basketball games to concerts by Garth Brooks.In 2012, Live Nation submitted a joint bid with another company for a contract to manage the arena. Three people who listened to Live Nation’s pitch said in interviews that the company said some of its tours might skip the arena if it lost the deal.“One of their main selling points was the relationship with the talent that they had and their ability to determine where that talent chose to play,” said Larry Hayes, who was then chairman of the Louisville Arena Authority, which oversees the venue.The arena picked AEG anyway.Mr. Fikre and other AEG officials say that two years later, when their company considered replacing Ticketmaster with their own ticketing service, AXS, Live Nation gave a warning.Over dinner on the night of a Miley Cyrus concert in August 2014, they said, a Live Nation executive told AEG’s local venue manager that some Live Nation tours would likely bypass Louisville if AEG made good on its plan to replace Ticketmaster.This is one of the incidents that AEG complained about to the Justice Department, pointing out that the consent decree specifically forbids Live Nation from threatening to withhold shows from venues that do not hire Ticketmaster.The AEG account is supported by an internal email in which its employee reports being warned that the Yum! Center might lose “toss of the coin shows” — the kind that could go to a nearby arena — if Ticketmaster was dumped.Mr. Hayes said in an interview that he had not been aware of a second warning. He had, in fact, endorsed retaining Ticketmaster, he said: It had served the arena well. But the letter of endorsement he wrote to AEG made plain that he understood there was a nexus between employing Ticketmaster and retaining access to Live Nation talent.Advertisement“Due to the relationship between Ticketmaster and Live Nation,” Mr. Hayes wrote, “and knowing how important content is to our financial stability, the Louisville Arena Authority is requesting that AEG receive a formal bid from Ticketmaster to retain its business at the KFC Yum! Center.”AEG officials say they ultimately ditched the plan to replace Ticketmaster because they worried the venue might lose show revenue.Live Nation disputed the account of warnings and supplied data showing that since 2012 the number of tours it has sent to the KFC Yum! Center has only increased. (Even at the Gwinnett Center outside Atlanta, now known as the Infinite Energy Center, the number of Live Nation shows rebounded after dropping off in 2014.)There is little evidence, actually, of Live Nation retaliation. Competitors say that is because venues so rarely stray.Critics say enforcement of the consent decree has been complicated by what they call its ambiguous language. Though it forbids Live Nation from forcing a client to buy both its talent and ticketing, the agreement lets the company “bundle” its services “in any combination.” So Live Nation is barred from punishing an arena by, say, steering a star like Drake to appear at a rival stop down the road. But it’s also allowed, under the agreement, to redirect a concert if it can defend the decision as sound business.Mr. Buffier, of the New York Attorney General’s office, said the ambiguity creates “high burdens to prove violations in court.”Competitors assert that the bundling lets Live Nation pressure venues without ever uttering a threat.“They don’t need to,” said Marc Leibowitz, co-owner of One Percent Productions, an independent concert promoter in Omaha. “It’s just implied.”AdvertisementDavid Willis, a former ticketing executive who left Ticketmaster in 2014, said the company was always careful to instruct the sales staff to respect the rules as to how talent could be mentioned when pitching an arena for business.“We were not saying, certainly, ‘If you don’t go with us you are losing that,’” he said. But he acknowledged, “I would imagine that that is what they assumed to be the case.”Live Nation and AEG both have their headquarters in Los Angeles, and last summer the companies faced off in a contract dispute over a new Major League Soccer team there, the Los Angeles Football Club.Trouble began brewing when the team began looking for someone to ticket its new stadium downtown, due to open this month.Ticketmaster put in a bid. But the team insisted that Live Nation bring in some concerts as well. Live Nation balked — soccer stadiums, executives said, were a poor fit for concerts — but it struck a preliminary deal that included ticketing and a commitment to provide a few shows each year.Then the plan hit a snag. AEG owned another professional soccer team in Los Angeles — the Galaxy — and had an agreement with Major League Soccer: If another franchise from Los Angeles joined the league, AEG had the right to match any competitor’s ticketing offer.Wielding that clause as leverage, AEG blocked the selection of Ticketmaster, and the contract instead went to SeatGeek, an upstart company that had deals with a number of M.L.S. teams.The Ticketmaster executives were furious and threatened to sue. They told the team owners that, if there was no Ticketmaster contract, they would not be getting the Live Nation shows. The team then complained to Major League Soccer that Live Nation had threatened to withhold talent, according to a statement by the league.AdvertisementLive Nation denied it had made any kind of threat and pointed out that the soccer league has a small equity stake in SeatGeek. It said the arena had simply pulled out of a package deal that covered both ticketing and concerts — just the sort of bundling, it said, the Justice Department settlement had allowed. Without ticketing, according to Live Nation officials, it simply made no economic sense to put concerts in a space built for soccer.But the consent decree, which expires in 2020, also says Live Nation cannot “condition or threaten to condition the provision of live entertainment events” if a venue decides to use another company for ticketing.So is this a case of bullying, or just a business decision?“Live Nation and Ticketmaster,” the company said in a statement “do not ‘condition’ the placement of concerts at venues on becoming the venue’s ticketing provider. Venues, on the other hand, often condition the ticketing contract on guaranteed content.”Antitrust experts said this was the kind of thicket that Justice officials must navigate as they reviewed the antitrust complaints.Since the dust up, Live Nation has returned to the table and is discussing bringing acts to the stadium. The team declined to comment on the dispute. SeatGeek ended up holding onto the contract.But the perception that Live Nation might withhold talent is prevalent enough that SeatGeek now structures some bids to address the concerns of venues who fear losing big stars, and revenues.For example, last year, when SeatGeek tried to unseat Ticketmaster from its contract at the TD Garden in Boston, it included in its bid a promise to pay the arena $250,000 for every show that Live Nation pulled, according to a bid document reviewed by the Times and three people with knowledge of the negotiations.Ticketmaster still won. TD Garden officials said the contract was awarded on the merits, and they had not received threats.A SeatGeek spokesperson declined to discuss the negotiations. But Russ D’Souza, a founder of the company, said he has seen evidence that competition in the market is less than open.Advertisement“When we sell to teams,” he said, “we have heard fears about losing concerts if they choose us.”Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byIf “Saturday Night Live” suffered any loss of visibility during its monthlong Winter Olympics hiatus, the show got a most unusual promotional boost on Friday. That’s when President Trump, a frequent target of “S.N.L.” and a once-vocal critic of the show, broke a monthslong silence and went on Twitter to vent his spleen at Alec Baldwin, his “S.N.L.” impersonator.This weekend’s broadcast of “S.N.L.,” hosted by Charles Barkley and featuring the musical guest Migos, didn’t directly acknowledge the feud, though it did give Baldwin plenty of airtime to lampoon the president in its opening sketch.In her absence, Baldwin said, “Jared Kushner’s basically the hottest chick left in the place.” And when he sought assurance from Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser, that he was still on board, the camera cut to an empty chair with McMaster’s name in front of it.Turning to the subject of tariffs, Baldwin said: “Both sides hated it. I don’t care. I said I was going to run this country like a business. That business is a Waffle House at 2 a.m. Crazies everywhere, staff walking out in the middle of their shift, managers taking money out of the cash register to pay off the Russian mob.”In other highlights from the episode:Though he occasionally stumbled in his delivery, Barkley, the “Inside the NBA” analyst, scored with a pointed comedic commentary on the role of athletes in American civic life. He began:Che responded: “I stay seated for the anthem, because I’m still in my Uber. Because black people are always late.”Playing the soon-to-be departed Hope Hicks, Cecily Strong recalled her time at the Trump White House as if it were summer camp. “You make all these new friends,” she explained. “You barely get any sleep and then everybody leaves after eight weeks.” She bid farewell to friends like Kellyanne Conway (“You taught me that a strong woman can run a campaign and win. And you showed me what I could turn into if I stick around too long”), and in a final message to her colleagues, she said: “I’ll see you guys at the reunion in 10 years. Seven with good behavior.”At the end of her segment, Jones brought out Hilary Knight, a member of the United States’ gold-medal winning women’s hockey team, and gave Jost a warning. “Don’t be talking about how you’re going to teach me something,” Jones said. “I got friends who are gold-medal Olympians.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byIn his 2014 book “Nothing Is True and Everything Is Possible,” Peter Pomerantsev describes modern Russia as a decadently surreal place where the ruling regime fuses propaganda with over-the-top entertainment to systematically distort and recreate reality.Pomerantsev, the British son of Russian émigrés, had worked in Russia’s state-controlled television industry, and portrayed it as a hypnotic circus full of wild, melodramatic extremes. Rationality, he wrote, “was tuned out, and Kremlin-friendly cults and hatemongers were put on prime time to keep the nation entranced, distracted, as ever more foreign hirelings would arrive to help the Kremlin and spread its vision to the world.”We still don’t know the details of Donald Trump’s possible collusion with Russia, but as a result of his election, the febrile atmosphere Pomerantsev described has spread to the United States. Our politics feel dreamlike in their garish improbability; a running joke on Twitter is that the showrunners for this season of America have jumped the shark.It sounds, of course, like an outrageous scam, and perhaps it is. But Vashukevich, who goes by the alias Nastya Rybka, has a documented link to Oleg Deripaska, an oligarch who figures prominently in one of the scandals surrounding the Trump campaign. Indeed, that link may be why she’s locked up in the first place. Whether you believe her or not, her bizarre, sordid story offers real clues to the chain connecting Trump’s circle to the highest level of the Russian government.It began last September, when a group of women in scanty bondage gear walked into the Moscow office of Navalny’s organization, the Anti-Corruption Foundation. At that very moment, journalists from a pro-Putin media outlet just happened to be passing by, and recorded their presence.Navalny wanted to find out who the women were and who had sent them. He discovered that they were, as he put it in the video, a “mildly insane” squad of activist sex workers who specialize in weird pranks, like picketing the American Embassy naked in support of Harvey Weinstein. And one of them, Vashukevich, had lots of photographs of herself and the politically powerful Deripaska on her Instagram account.Deripaska, remember, is the oligarch that the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort offered to brief privately on the American presidential campaign. He’s been connected to Russian organized crime, and Manafort appeared to owe him a lot of money. (A court filing in the Cayman Islands said Manafort and his deputy, Rick Gates, couldn’t account for nearly $19 million that they were supposed to invest for a business controlled by Deripaska.) After joining the Trump campaign, Manafort emailed an intermediary, asking, apparently in reference to Deripaska, “How do we use to get whole?”Navalny initially dismissed speculation that Deripaska had served as a back channel between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. “Among all the conspiracy theories of American mass media, this part was the most unconvincing,” he said in the video. “Many oligarchs are close to Putin,” and there was no evidence that Deripaska was transmitting secret intelligence to him.But then Navalny and his team looked closely at the Instagram account of Deripaska’s nubile consort. Vashukevich had posted video from an August 2016 trip to Norway on Deripaska’s yacht with several other escorts. And on that yacht was a Russian deputy prime minister, Sergei Prikhodko. In the video, you can even hear Deripaska and Prikhodko talking about Russia’s bad relations with the United States, for which Deripaska blamed Victoria Nuland, Barack Obama’s assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs. Seeing it, said Navalny, “the pieces of this puzzle fell into place.”When the news about Vashukevich’s arrest broke, my first thought was that it was some sort of dirty trick, a sideshow designed to make the investigation into Trump’s Russian connections look ridiculous. After all, one thing we’ve learned from this whole affair is that Deripaska maintains relationships with sex workers who participate in gonzo political theater. (That itself is useful knowledge in evaluating the more salacious claims in the infamous dossier compiled by the British former spy Christopher Steele.)But Vashukevich and Kirillov really are being detained, and, speaking from a police van, Kirillov told The Associated Press that he believes Russia is behind their arrests. He has reportedly sent a handwritten letter to the American Embassy in Thailand pleading for asylum in exchange for information.They are in America, too. Could a social-media-obsessed escort help explain the degrading nightmare of the Trump presidency? It seems like the preposterously lazy plot of a sub-B movie. But these days, so does everything else in our politics.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byGray MatterIt’s award season in Hollywood, and it looks like the big winner will be progressive politics.At the Golden Globes and Critics’ Choice Awards this month, the fight against sexual harassment and the feminist demand for equity in the entertainment industry took center stage, while liberal ideals like racial justice, freedom of the press and human rights rang out in acceptance speeches, red carpet interviews and tweets from the stars. To judge from the chatter after the Oscar nominations were announced on Tuesday, we can expect something similar at this year’s Academy Awards.This is hardly the first time Hollywood has displayed a progressive slant. What makes actors so liberal?Polling data on actors’ political views are hard to come by. But there’s evidence beyond award-show behavior and Instagram feeds to suggest that the stereotype of the liberal actor squares with reality. For example, where Hillary Clinton received three votes for every one that went to Donald Trump in Los Angeles County as a whole, actor-heavy areas like the Hollywood Hills recorded even more-lopsided tallies. Likewise, the Center for Responsive Politics reports that individuals and firms in the television, movie and music industries gave $84 million in campaign contributions during the 2016 election cycle, with 80 percent going to Democrats.Three explanations for Hollywood’s liberalism are worth considering. The first focuses on social characteristics that actors share with other liberals. Statistics from the American Community Survey, which is carried out by the United States Census Bureau, back up the common-sense assumption that acting is primarily a blue-state occupation. Fifty-seven percent of working actors live in California or New York.What’s more, at a time when educational achievement has become one of the best predictors of political attitudes and voting, over 50 percent of actors have at least a bachelor’s degree, as compared with a third of all adults in the labor force. Finally, many actors belong to unions — the Screen Actors Guild or the Actors’ Equity Association — and unions typically nudge workers left. These things might be enough to give acting its liberal cast.But acting doesn’t score high on other factors usually associated with progressive attitudes. Census Bureau data show that 44 percent of actors are women. Pollsters and political scientists have found a major gender gap in contemporary politics, and we’d expect a field where men have the numeric edge to pull to the right. Democratic-inclined racial minority groups, Hispanics especially, are also underrepresented among actors.In addition, Hollywood was politically progressive long before California became a Democratic stronghold, before going to college became widespread and when the Screen Actors Guild was still in its infancy. So it’s unlikely that Hollywood’s current demographic profile can fully explain its liberal tendencies.A second hypothesis looks not to statistical correlations but to history. According to the historian Steven Ross, in the early days of Hollywood, in the 1910s and 1920s, most actors were apolitical. Charlie Chaplin, who parlayed the antiauthoritarianism of his tramp persona into explicit political commentary, was the exception that proved the rule. His politics weren’t well received.But by the 1930s, the story had changed. The trauma of the Great Depression drew screen actors into progressive politics. Enthusiasm for President Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal ran strong among actors, though not among arch-conservative movie moguls like Louis B. Mayer. The Screen Actors Guild was formed during that period. The looming threat of anti-Semitic fascism further politicized screen actors in an industry that had become an ethnic niche for Jews.Actors’ liberal politics would wax and wane over the remainder of the 20th century, growing muted under McCarthyism and amplified later when there was social unrest — the civil rights movement, the Vietnam War era (think Jane Fonda). But you can trace a more or less straight line from those early formative events to today.There is, however, a third explanation worth pondering: that the emotional requirements of acting are conducive to progressive politics. “The overwhelmingly liberal orientation of actors,” Professor Ross has written, “can be partially understood as a byproduct of the demands of their craft. Playing a variety of characters, many of whom they did not necessarily like, fostered a sense of empathy and ability to understand issues and people outside their personal experience.”Professor Ross suggests that empathy develops as actors gain experience on the job, but we can also speculate that empathetic people are more likely to become actors. Either way, is there any evidence that empathy correlates with liberal ideology?Surveys show that liberals see themselves, anyway, as more empathetic and kindhearted than conservatives, a self-conception reinforced by political rhetoric. But in a recent paper, the psychologist Adam Waytz and his colleagues report a more nuanced finding: The main thing distinguishing liberals and conservatives in this regard isn’t how empathetic they are overall; rather, the key difference is how much empathy they feel for specific groups. Where conservatives empathize foremost with family members and country, liberals extend the bounds of empathy to include friends, the socially disadvantaged and citizens of the world, to whom they’d like government to lend a hand.It’s not implausible that empathy could help explain actors’ progressive sympathies. If that’s the case, though, it testifies to the remarkable human capacity for hypocrisy that, until now, the bounds of empathy among liberal men in Hollywood have not stretched to include female actors subject to sexual and economic exploitation.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS