AdvertisementWith encouragement from one of her managers, she took up rapping, and has released a pair of mixtapes that mold her off-the-cuff verve and improvised bon mots into something stickier. “Bodak Yellow” feels like one of her Instagram clips come to life, funny and self-aware and savage.But no female rapper has moved as quickly from street hit to chart topper, an assertive reframing of the pathways typically available to them. Trevor Anderson, a chart manager at Billboard focused on R&B and hip-hop, said, “We haven’t seen a song from someone brand new go up the charts this quick since Meghan Trainor,” noting that was typically the preserve of more established stars like Justin Bieber or Rihanna. That it happened “without a meme, without a dance, it makes it that much weirder,” he added.AdvertisementAdvertisementCardi B has a thick voice — she swells her syllables until they take up all available space, and moves on and off the beat stealthily. Generally, she chops up her lines into small pieces — “They see pictures, they say, ‘Goals,’ bitch, I’m who they tryna be” — making more entry points, turning each into a sort of mini-chorus.Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Those are two different segments of New York’s music culture, and part of the reason Cardi B can move so effortlessly between them is that in a genre largely marked by heavy Southern inflections and intonations, she still speaks with the reassuring contours of New York street slang, filtered through a Spanish accent.Mr. Bieber’s addition to “Despacito” — an English-language star singing partly in Spanish — helped propel it to the top of the chart, but Cardi B might have a different approach in mind. This month, she released a Spanish remix of “Bodak Yellow” featuring the Dominican-American rapper Messiah, one of the key figures in the Latin trap movement. That genre — in essence, a Spanish-language version of American hip-hop — has been gaining popularity over the last couple of years, but it might be “Bodak Yellow” that gives it its breakout moment.Soon after its release, Spanish-language radio stations began playing “Bodak Yellow,” Mr. Bakula noted. That means that turning this English song Spanish may be the thing to take it to the top of the chart — a kind of reverse “Despacito” in the making.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Consider the following four movie reviews:“Awesome!”“Awful!”“Criminally underrated!”“It is my sad duty to report that I was mildly disappointed!”The first two reactions are probably the analyses of amateur movie lovers, and the latter are more likely the declarations of professional critics, but still: All four are equally valid reactions to a movie-going experience. And all four are equally useless opinions, of no interest — unless that opiner can back up sentiment with sense. Analysis. A cogent explanation of the factors that go into passing personal judgment on a work of cinema. Reasonable minds can differ and all that, but the first requirement of any meaningful movie debate is a demonstration of that reason — beyond “I love Wes Anderson movies!” and “I can’t stand Wes Anderson movies!”In “Talking Pictures: How to Watch Movies,” Ann Hornaday provides a pleasantly calm, eminently sensible, down-the-middle primer for the movie lover — amateur, professional or Twitter-centric orator — who would like to acquire and sharpen basic viewing skills. An estimable movie critic at The Washington Post and a finalist for the 2008 Pulitzer Prize in criticism, Hornaday explains upfront that she did not grow up, in her words, as “a congenital movie geek”; rather, in a winding journalism career that began at Ms. magazine, she learned her craft on the job. In this way, she says, she is more like her readers than like a film studies major or a gender studies major or a was-Pauline-Kael-really-all-that? major. And, inspired by a series of instructional articles she assembled for her readers some years back, here she considers various aspects of filmmaking in chapters that roughly follow the timeline of production: screenplay, acting, production design, cinematography, editing, sound and music, and directing. (Missing from consideration: a grasp of cinema history and cultural context within which to assess Movie A in relationship to Movies B-Z.)Hornaday fortifies her observations with comments from film professionals — writers, actors, directors — interviewed for the project. She also peppers each chapter with suggested questions a conscientious viewer might want to ask in each category. The screenplay: “Did the movie flow? Did I care what happened next?” The acting: “Did the actors disappear completely into their roles?” The directing: “Did the movie reflect ambition and vision beyond simply recording performances?” Inevitably, as a seasoned critic, she asks questions that reinforce her own aesthetic preferences. And so, especially, does the recommended viewing she lists at the end of each chapter — certified examples of excellence that only the most insistent of contrarians might challenge, including “Casablanca” and “Chinatown” for screenplay, “The Hurt Locker” for directing, and Viola Davis in “Fences” for acting. (The book is current through 2016 and the triumph of “Moonlight.”)Since a professional critic is generally thought to be a genius when her opinion matches that of the reader and an idiot when it doesn’t — I have been hailed as both in my time — I can announce that Hornaday is a genius insofar as she loves the nonverbal, visual power of Alfonso Cuarón’s “Children of Men” as much as I do, and deftly dismisses the directorial stylings of Tom Hooper in “The King’s Speech” and “The Danish Girl” as “attractively appointed, visually inert parlor dramas.” Indeed, the author is so determinedly reasonable and adult in this levelheaded book that there is little incentive to argue with her criteria for what makes a movie “good” or “bad.”The downside, I suppose, is the lack of opportunity to call her an idiot. And that, to a certain portion of the opining, moviegoing public, is apparently almost as pleasurable an activity as drawing one’s own conclusion, backed by reason and emphasized by the turn of a thumb.Lisa Schwarzbaum, a former critic at Entertainment Weekly, is a freelance journalist.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNot long ago, after interviewing a venture capitalist onstage, I announced to the audience that we would take questions but no pitches. The first person at the microphone asked the investor to fund his start-up. I cringed as the second person started to pitch, too. Our educational event had quickly turned into a bad episode of “Shark Tank.”The following week, at a similar event, I saw a student ask a C.E.O. for her personal email address in front of the crowd. I’ve been stunned by the lengths people will go to at tech and business conferences to make a connection with a big name: sneaking backstage for a selfie, slipping business cards into briefcases, chasing them out the exit.Yet we’ve all been warned that it’s not what you know, it’s who you know. Success is supposed to come to the suave schmoozers and social butterflies.It’s true that networking can help you accomplish great things. But this obscures the opposite truth: Accomplishing great things helps you develop a network.Look at big breaks in entertainment. For George Lucas, a turning point was when Francis Ford Coppola hired him as a production assistant and went on to mentor him. Mr. Lucas didn’t schmooze his way into the relationship, though. As a film student he’d won first prize at a national festival and a scholarship to be an apprentice on a Warner Bros. film — he picked one of Mr. Coppola’s.Not long ago, I watched a colleague try to climb the ladder of success solely through networking. For a few years, he managed to meet increasingly influential people and introduce them to one another. Eventually it fell apart when they realized he didn’t have a meaningful connection with any of them. Networking alone leads to empty transactions, not rich relationships.It’s a lesson I’ve learned in my own career. I once emailed an entrepreneur I admired and got nothing in response. Some months later he contacted me out of the blue, with no memory that I had tried to get in touch before. He had attended a talk I gave and wanted to meet — now he had proof that I could add value.My students often believe that if they simply meet more important people, their work will improve. But it’s remarkably hard to engage with those people unless you’ve already put something valuable out into the world. That’s what piques the curiosity of advisers and sponsors. Achievements show you have something to give, not just something to take.So stop fretting about networking. Take a page out of the George Lucas and Sara Blakely playbooks: Make an intriguing film, build a useful product.In life, it certainly helps to know the right people. But how hard they go to bat for you, how far they stick their necks out for you, depends on what you have to offer. Building a powerful network doesn’t require you to be an expert at networking. It just requires you to be an expert at something.If you make great connections, they might advance your career. If you do great work, those connections will be easier to make. Let your insights and your outputs — not your business cards — do the talking.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementGood morning on this stormy Friday.“Monitor social media and the news in the morning. If there is a major disruption, I’ll try to work from home. My fear is the evening commute.”— Justin Finnegan, 39, West Orange, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“Avoidance is my plan. As much as humanly possible. Also, driving.”Advertisement— Susan Piskiel Blackburn, 63, Short Hills, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“I’ll use the PATH if necessary, though I fear herds of commuters moving inch by inch through Hoboken. So I’m looking forward more to the New York Waterway, which might seem like a mini-vacation each way. It’ll add 20 minutes to my walk to work, but maybe with a spring in my step from the boat ride’s misty wind.”Advertisement— Joel Schwartzberg, 48, Chatham, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“Utilizing the Hunterspoint Avenue station as much as possible, especially during the evening commute. Many L.I.R.R. commuters do not realize how convenient and less stressful this station is.”— Jesse Pardo, 29, Lynbrook, N.Y. (L.I.R.R.)“I will avoid going into the city as often as possible. I don’t want to pay Long Island Rail Road. No fare reduction for me, as I wouldn’t want to go into Brooklyn or Hunterspoint.”— Charlotte Armstrong, 37, West Hempstead, N.Y., (L.I.R.R.)“My plan for the ‘summer of hell’ is simply to move to Brooklyn. L.I.R.R. isn’t great under normal operations, and I have no interest in seeing this circus continue.”— Jason Rabinowitz, 31, Woodmere, N.Y., (L.I.R.R.)What’s your Plan B during the track repairs? Let us know in the comments.Here’s what else is happening:If you plan to spend much time outside this morning, prepare to get wet.We’re expecting showers and perhaps a thunderstorm or two until your afternoon coffee break.The skies should dry up by Saturday afternoon, after which sun and temperatures in the mid 80s are on tap. Sunday is similarly warm and sunny.AdvertisementAdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.SaturdaySundayAdvertisementAdvertisementYou’ll need at least a high school diploma, sea legs and the desire to learn and to ask questions.NYC Ferry hopes to have 80 deckhands by the end of the month, and 100 by next summer.(And if you have the skills, the city is also looking to hire 50 captains by next summer.)Deckhands won’t be offered a corner office, but the position does come with quite the view.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOff the ShelfRic Edelman disappoints in his new investing book, left. Gary Smith offers financial formulas to help identify value stocks in his new book, “Money Machine.”With the stock market up substantially since the first of the year, and technological innovations continuing to roil the corporate landscape, how should you invest right now?Two new books offer very different answers, with each taking an unconventional approach.In the far better one, “Money Machine: The Surprisingly Simple Power of Value Investing” (Amacom, $27.95), Gary Smith, a Pomona College economics professor, says you should concentrate on value stocks. In contrast, in “The Truth About Your Future: The Money Guide You Need Now, Later and Much Later” (Simon & Schuster $26), Ric Edelman says you need to figure out how to capitalize on trends disrupting how business is typically done.Let’s begin with Mr. Smith, who does an excellent job explaining his position.“Instead of trying to predict short-term zigs and zags in stock prices, value investors evaluate individual stocks and the market as a whole by looking for good companies that have low stock prices relative to their dividends, earnings and assets,” he writes.Mr. Smith uses an analogy to make his case.“Think of a stock as a machine that generates cash every few months — cash that happens to be called dividends,” he writes. “The key question is how much you would pay to own that machine in order to get the cash. This is the stock’s intrinsic value. Value investors buy a stock because it is an inexpensive money machine, generating bountiful cash it is hoped over many years.”Throughout the book, Mr. Smith provides financial formulas to help you identify value stocks, and his writing is clear and often clever. For example:The book, however, does have its flaws — one major, a couple minor.The big one first: It is perfectly defensible to pick one approach to investing — such as loading up on value stocks, companies with solid revenues, earnings and dividends that are trading at a relatively low price — over all others. As Mr. Smith points out a number of times, Warren E. Buffett is a value investor. And this reviewer understands that Mr. Buffett has done quite well.But financial mavens like Mr. Buffett, the maestro of Berkshire Hathaway, are rare, and as Mr. Smith himself points out, “very few investors think they are below average, even though half are.” Most of us would be better off with a widely diversified portfolio, something Mr. Smith barely acknowledges.As for the minor nits, Mr. Smith tends to digress, mentioning academic papers he wrote that are at best tangential to the concept of value investing. For example, he says that stocks with ingenious ticker symbols, such as MOO for VanEck Vectors Agribusiness ETF, tend to outperform the market. That is a fun fact — especially for us financial nerds — but I am not sure what it has to do with the matter at hand, and I would not recommend an investment based solely on a cute name.Similarly, while it is possible that a home could be viewed as a value investment, as he explains, I am not sure the discussion was worth 20 pages of a 300-page book.These are small quibbles. For the most part, he states his case well.“The value-investing philosophy is simple,” he writes. “Look for great companies whose stocks are inexpensive relative to their dividends and earnings.”That clarity and brevity are lacking in Mr. Edelman’s book. He is a financial planner, but readers expecting detailed investment advice will be disappointed.For example, after writing that it is vital to diversify your investments among stocks, bonds, cash and perhaps other investments such as real estate, how does Mr. Edelman respond to his rhetorical question “how much of your portfolio should be placed into each” of those assets?Like this: “The answer is … it depends. I wish I could provide you a more specific answer right now, but this is just a book on personal finance — it’s not a private, in-depth meeting with a financial planning professional.”He doesn’t even offer general guidelines. He just moves on.This is already my pick for the most frustrating personal finance book of 2017. And one of the reasons I am so annoyed is that the premise was so promising.“Financial planning is all about anticipating and preparing for the future,” Mr. Edelman writes. “So to understand what your future will be like, you need to understand why it’s going to be so radically different from what you have been assuming.”He then devotes about two-thirds of his more than 300 pages to underscoring things we know but can easily forget: Medical advances could make us live longer, ever-evolving technology will provide more engaging entertainment options, and rapidly evolving workplaces will require continuous education, perhaps extensive enough for us to have to leave the workplace for a while to concentrate on learning new things.So far, so good. But what do these changes mean for the way we invest? Well, when it comes to leisure and learning, for example, Mr. Edelman’s advice is just this: “Expect to spend lots of money on travel and recreation — and this will need to be factored into your financial plan.” How? There are no details.About as specific as he gets is to say: “Invest in a globally diversified portfolio. Maintain that portfolio for a very long time. Strategically rebalance the portfolio as needed,” and “include companies that are using or developing exponential technologies.”The “what” to invest in, how much of your portfolio it should represent, and what’s “a very long time” are left to you. That isn’t much help when you are trying to determine how to invest today.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementHedge funds have been failing over the last year at the fastest rate since the financial crisis in 2008. Some crashed and burned after sudden reversals. Others quietly liquidated.Sears said that the statement reflected a new, more stringent accounting rule, and that the company was in no imminent danger of bankruptcy. “We are a viable business that can meet its financial and other obligations for the foreseeable future,” said Jason Hollar, Sears’s chief financial officer.AdvertisementStill, coming after seven straight years of huge losses, the announcement seems a milestone on a road that has only one likely end.Advertisement“It takes a retailer like Sears a long time to die,” said Greg Melich, senior managing director and head of consumer research for Evercore, and the last Wall Street analyst still covering Sears. “It’s been burning through over a billion dollars in cash every year. That’s not sustainable.”Sears Holdings has long been ESL’s largest investment, along with other Sears assets Mr. Lampert spun off, such as the struggling Lands’ End. (The two holdings accounted for nearly half the fund’s holdings at the end of the year, according to its most recent securities filings.) Sears Holdings shares were $162 in 2006; this week they were barely above $11.Few hedge fund managers have been as celebrated as Mr. Lampert in his heyday, which now appears to be the mid-2000s. Mr. Lampert was a Wall Street wunderkind, a Goldman Sachs intern whose intellect, ingratiating personality and prodigious work ethic attracted the patronage of some of America’s most prominent and successful investors: Robert Rubin, Mr. Lampert’s mentor at Goldman; Richard Rainwater, who invested for the billionaire Bass brothers before starting his own firm; and David Geffen, the billionaire entertainment mogul.Mr. Lampert was 25 years old and at the vanguard of the hedge fund movement when he founded ESL in 1988 with $28 million in seed money from Mr. Rainwater.The change in Sears share price from 2006 to the beginning of this week.No one compares Mr. Lampert to Mr. Buffett anymore. His high-profile investors are, for the most part, long gone. Mr. Tisch, who’s also a director of Sears, is described as steadfastly loyal. Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s roommate at Yale and now Treasury secretary, disclosed last year that he had a $26 million investment in ESL. (Mr. Mnuchin said he would divest the position.)AdvertisementNotably, a group of Goldman Sachs clients who had invested $3.5 billion in 2007 bailed out of the fund in 2013. Their exit “pretty much says it all” as far as investor confidence in Mr. Lampert goes, Mr. Melich said.Where did someone as smart, successful and hard-working as Mr. Lampert go wrong? His initial concept to combine two iconic but deeply distressed retailers — Kmart and Sears — initially appealed to many investors as a classic investment in undervalued, poorly managed assets in the Warren Buffett style. But Mr. Buffett doesn’t personally manage his portfolio companies. Several former Lampert investors told me that Mr. Lampert’s fundamental mistake was one common to many once-successful hedge fund managers: hubris, and the belief that investment prowess would translate into management skill.“He was a very successful investor before he took over Kmart and Sears,” said Mark Cohen, former chief executive of Sears Canada and a professor at Columbia Business School, where he’s the director of retail studies. (Mr. Cohen left Sears Canada before Mr. Lampert arrived.)“He seemed to think he was smarter than anyone in the retail business, but he had no idea how to run the company from Day 1,” Mr. Cohen said. “One thing I teach is that core competencies are the basis for success or failure. Lampert had no experience in retail, and no management competency whatsoever.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sears and other brick-and-mortar retail chains, of course, have been battered over the last decade by forces beyond Mr. Lampert’s control, especially the rise of internet retailing. Mr. Lampert claims to have foreseen the trend. If so, he’s had scant success carrying out a strategy to deal with it.His one consistent approach over the years has been to cut costs drastically. Initially, it seemed to work, increasing cash flow and earnings. “There’s a philosophy to that,” Mr. Melich said, but Sears “grossly underinvested in areas that proved to be very relevant to the future of merchandising, such as multichannel retailing.”He pointed to the contrast between Sears and Home Depot, whose shares have nearly tripled in the last five years, despite the internet and competition from Amazon.Mr. Lampert has shown more prowess as a financial engineer, and has seemingly squeezed Sears’s once formidable assets for every penny of value through a continuing series of asset sales, spinoffs, dividend payouts and loans secured by Sears assets. Mr. Lampert has emphasized that because he is Sears’s largest shareholder, his interests are aligned with other Sears shareholders.But the perception persists that many of these deals have benefited Mr. Lampert more than shareholders, since he’s often on both sides of the transactions.AdvertisementOver the last two years alone, Mr. Lampert and ESL have extended Sears over $800 million in loans secured by Sears assets — nearly two-thirds as much as Sears’s entire market capitalization of $1.2 billion. That makes Mr. Lampert and ESL the largest Sears creditors, giving them vastly different interests than most shareholders. (ESL Investments holds 48 percent of Sears Holdings’s equity and 32 percent of its total long-term debt.) As creditors, they could end up owning Sears if it reorganizes in bankruptcy, while other Sears shareholders would be wiped out.Last month, Mr. Lampert and the Sears board agreed to pay $40 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit claiming that Sears’s sale and lease-back of much of its most valuable real estate to a real estate investment trust — 43 percent owned by Mr. Lampert and his ESL hedge fund — was a blatant conflict of interest that harmed Sears shareholders. Sears has denied any wrongdoing and said it had settled the suit merely to avoid “protracted litigation.”Mr. Lampert “has stripped Sears of its assets,” Mr. Cohen said. “It’s the longest liquidation in retail history. His reputation in the retail community is that he’s a financial pirate.”Like most hedge fund managers, Mr. Lampert continues to get a management fee no matter how poorly the fund’s assets perform.Still, Sears’s travails and their impact on ESL’s results have clearly taken a toll on Mr. Lampert’s own fortunes. Although Mr. Lampert probably shows substantial gains on his original investment in Sears and Kmart, “he and ESL investors can’t have fared very well over the past six or seven years,” Mr. Melich said.Mr. Lampert remains one of the country’s richest people. He owns lavish homes in Greenwich, Conn.; Aspen, Colo.; and Miami as well as a 288-foot yacht, Fountainhead, named after the Ayn Rand novel (Mr. Lampert is a devotee of the author). Last year Forbes ranked him tied for No. 309 on its annual list of the 400 richest Americans, with a net worth of $2.3 billion.But that’s a billion-and-a-half dollars less than Forbes estimated back in 2006. Since then, Mr. Bezos has vaulted to No. 2 on the Forbes list, just behind Bill Gates, with a net worth of $67 billion. Had Mr. Lampert simply put his fortune in a stock market index fund rather than gaining control of Sears and Kmart, he would have fared far better.Through a spokesman, Mr. Lampert declined to comment.Even his critics concede that Mr. Lampert has been stubbornly consistent, refusing to throw in the towel on Sears even after years of deteriorating results. In a news release last week, he showed no signs of backing down, pledging yet another “fundamental restructuring” of Sears.His strategy? Cutting “at least $1 billion in costs on an annualized basis.”An earlier version of this column misstated the management fee charged by ESL Investments. The fund says it is 1 percent of assets under management, not 2 percent.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementHaving reached the top of a major corporation and amassed a fortune, chief executives often wonder: What’s next?“There is this sense that if Trump got it, why shouldn’t they?” said David Gergen, co-director of the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard Kennedy School and an adviser to four presidents. “They’ve been more successful, they have more experience, and they’ve run a public company, which is more equivalent to what a president does than a private company” like the Trump Organization.AdvertisementMr. Loeser now runs his own strategic consulting firm, and told me he has clients who are business executives considering a run for high public office. “I can’t tell you their names, obviously,” he said.AdvertisementAll deny they’re running, or even seriously considering it. But everyone demurs so far ahead of the first primaries, as did Hillary Clinton four years ago, and it hasn’t stopped anyone from speculating. That’s especially the case for people who, appalled by the Trump administration, can hardly wait for the next campaign.“I feel many of these chief executives are responding to a public longing for a strongman, or woman, a strong leader,” Mr. Gergen said. “There’s a sense that’s why Trump got elected. You’re seeing the same thing in Europe, in Asia, in a long list of countries. People are dissatisfied with standard politicians. Military types and business people with a strong track record offer an attractive alternative.”Apart from proven business experience, they have widespread name recognition or identification with major consumer brands. And they have enough money to finance their own campaigns.I’ve spoken this week to multiple people who have at least discussed the possibility of running for office with Mr. Schultz and Mr. Iger. (All declined to be named discussing what were private conversations.)Mr. Schultz, 63, with a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion, came close to making a bid last year, but backed out after concluding it would be very difficult to defeat Mrs. Clinton, who seemed to have the Democratic nomination all but locked up and at the time seemed likely to win the presidency.Those circumstances have obviously changed drastically. With Mr. Trump in office, the next Democratic race appears wide open, and many friends and potential donors are urging Mr. Schultz to run.AdvertisementMr. Schultz seemed to pave the way in December, when he announced he’d step down as Starbucks’ chief executive this April. But he continues to be actively involved in the expansion of the company’s high-end “roasteries” as well as its social-impact initiatives.“Howard Schultz is definitely being pursued,” Mr. Gergen said. “He has a powerful social conscience. He comes from a very different place than the kind of chief executive with a big ego who wants the trappings of presidential power.”Mr. Schultz declined to comment.Last year Mr. Iger, 66, told The Hollywood Reporter that “a lot of people — a lot — have urged me to seek political office,” and last week the entertainment publication fueled renewed speculation when it reported that Mr. Iger had discussed the possibility with Mr. Bloomberg.People who have discussed a possible presidential run with Mr. Iger told me that his discussion with Mr. Bloomberg, some years ago, focused more on a possible run for mayor of New York City, where Mr. Iger has an apartment. New York has long welcomed nonresident candidates like Mrs. Clinton, so Mr. Iger’s California residency isn’t seen as an obstacle.Both Mr. Iger and Mr. Bloomberg declined to comment.Whether any of those jobs, including the presidency, would actually be better than being chief executive of Disney remains an open question. After earlier announcing his retirement, Mr. Iger recently said he was willing to extend his contract, which would eliminate the need for any high-profile exit strategy, at least for the next few years.Campaign buttons emblazoned with “Vote for Benioff” and “Marc Benioff for President” circulated two years ago at Salesforce’s annual Dreamforce conference in San Francisco, which draws hundreds of thousands of participants and has been viewed by some as a likely launching pad for any Benioff campaign.Like Mr. Schultz, Mr. Benioff has pursued an ambitious social and philanthropic agenda. He started “Pledge 1%,” the Salesforce model of donating 1 percent of their product, 1 percent of their equity and 1 percent of employees’ time to help nonprofits achieve their missions — a practice that Salesforce says is now followed by 1,400 companies. Mr. Benioff was an outspoken defender of gay and lesbian rights and helped create a network of corporate leaders to oppose bills limiting L.G.B.T. rights in states like Indiana, Georgia and North Carolina.Mr. Benioff, 52, whose stake in Salesforce alone is worth over $3 billion and who has a net worth estimated by Forbes at over $4 billion, has also written three books, including the best-selling “Behind the Cloud.” Still, he’s hardly a household name, and is best known in business and technology circles.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Asked for comment, Mr. Benioff said, “Business is the greatest platform for change.”Ms. Sandberg’s coming nationwide tour to promote the new book she co-authored, “Option B,” which describes coming to terms with her husband’s sudden death in 2015 and other stories of coping with adversity, has fueled speculation (and possible wishful thinking) that the book could be a springboard for a presidential campaign.AdvertisementAs a billionaire ($1.47 billion, Forbes estimates) and a key executive of the hugely successful Facebook, Ms. Sandberg already has enormous name recognition. Her previous book, “Lean In,” was a best-seller and inspired a rallying cry for women. She has worked in politics before, as an assistant to the former Treasury secretary Lawrence H. Summers, and was a donor to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. She was considered a candidate for a top post in any Clinton administration.Ms. Sandberg has denied any immediate presidential ambitions, insisting that she loves her job at Facebook. At age 47, she’s under no pressure to run this election cycle.(Widespread reports that the Facebook founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would run for president seem even more far-fetched. The speculation appears to have been set off by a Bloomberg News report that Mr. Zuckerberg would retain voting control of Facebook even if he sold his shares and served in a government position for up to two years. Mr. Zuckerberg has denied any interest in running.)Then there’s Ms. Winfrey, 63, who for many Democrats might amount to the dream candidate: She has unrivaled star power, is an African-American woman, has run a successful business, and has a fortune estimated by Forbes at $3 billion.“That’s what I thought,” Ms. Winfrey replied. “I thought, ‘Oh gee, I don’t have the experience, I don’t know enough.’ And now I’m thinking, ‘Oh! Oh.’”But when Mr. Rubenstein began to ask, “As you consider whether you are going to run for president of the United States or not. ..,” she interjected, “No, that won’t be happening.”While some may disparage Mr. Trump’s credentials for the presidency, he did bring to his campaign a level of recognition that will be hard for other executives to replicate, with the possible exception of Ms. Winfrey.Advertisement“Trump spent decades building his brand and his image as a successful businessman,” Mr. Loeser said. “He was the star of one of the most-watched television shows in America. If you landed at La Guardia, you saw the Trump jet. If you went to Las Vegas, the tallest building in town has Trump’s name emblazoned on it.”Mr. Gergen agreed. “Trump has been a performer for years,” he said. “Most chief executives aren’t performers.”And chief executives “aren’t prepared for the scrutiny,” Mr. Gergen said. “It’s especially tough to work with the press. They’re used to having layers of people around them, but in politics you’re out there dealing with reporters every day.”“Look at Rex Tillerson,” he added, referring to the Exxon chief turned secretary of state. “He’s extremely well regarded in corporate circles, but he’s having trouble with the press.”Mr. Loeser said he was helping clients assess the kind of attacks they could expect in a hard-fought campaign.“You have to anticipate how they’ll come after you, because they will,” Mr. Loeser said. “Oprah is one of the most beloved people in America. But has anyone gone through every minute and every hour of every show she’s ever done to see if there’s anything controversial? Because someone will.”Mr. Gergen suggested that some chief executives might want to lower their sights. “I think business chief executives tend to make better governors or mayors,” he said. “They can be more pragmatic and less ideological. Some of the names you’re hearing, I have trouble picturing them with the Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders wing of the party. I wouldn’t call that a match made in heaven.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementNot wanting to be left out of the current wave of Hollywood award show activism, the music industry has put a symbolic twist on the boutonniere.What HappenedBest and WorstWinnersRed CarpetIn a message sent to supporters and the news media on Sunday ahead of the Grammys, Voices in Entertainment said it was fighting for “equal representation in the workplace, for leadership that reflects the diversity of our society, workplaces free of sexual harassment and a heightened awareness of accountability that our sisters started on January 1st and continued through the Golden Globes and onward.”Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementBefore the show, Ms. Loeb acknowledged the question of why music has yet to reckon with sexual abuse in its ranks the way movies, media and politics have in recent months. “I know some people are saying the music industry took a little while to catch up with some of the other industries,” the singer said. “But we haven’t had as many awards ceremonies.”AdvertisementThe white rose seemed to provide a manageable gesture for musicians to show they were paying attention and stand generally against injustice, though the specifics of the mission could get lost. At the preshow event, the singer Reba McEntire invoked the golden rule, adding, “Let’s just treat people kindly.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported by(Reuters) - Toy maker Hasbro Inc has agreed to acquire children's entertainment and merchandising franchises, including the characters of the superhero TV show Power Rangers, from Saban Entertainment for around $520 million in cash and stock, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The deal comes as Hasbro, the world's largest toy maker whose stable of franchises includes "My Little Pony," "Monopoly" and "The Transformers," seeks to reverse its losses following the bankruptcy last year of U.S. toy retailer Toys R Us.In addition to making toys and action figures, Hasbro profits from such franchises through the production of movies and TV series, allowing it to diversify its revenue beyond retail sales.A deal between Hasbro and Saban Entertainment, the owner of the Power Rangers franchise, could be announced as early as Tuesday, the sources said. The agreement also includes franchises such as Luna Petunia and Popples, the sources added.The sources asked not to be identified ahead of an official announcement. Hasbro and Saban Entertainment did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Launched as the “Mighty Morphin Power Rangers” live-action TV show in 1993, the franchise was created by Haim Saban, owner of Saban Entertainment.The TV series gave rise to a line of action figures and other merchandise, plus three movies, including 'Saban’s Power Rangers' last year. The 2017 film, distributed by Lions Gate Entertainment Corp, sold $142 million worth of tickets worldwide.Earlier this year, Hasbro and Saban signed a deal for the toy maker to design, produce and bring to market a wide variety of toys and role-play items inspired by Power Rangers.Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based Hasbro has taken several steps to boost its presence in the entertainment business as a way to fuel toy sales.The company operates Hasbro Studios, which produces TV shows such as the upcoming Netflix Inc series, “Stretch Armstrong and the Flex Fighters.”The toy industry's traditional players have been undone in recent years by a shift toward thousands of rival, smaller producers selling on Amazon and other e-commerce sites, as well as kids' preference for electronic games over physical toys.Last week, Hasbro reported a net loss attributable to the company of $112.5 million, or 90 cents per share, in the first quarter ended April 1, compared with a profit of $68.6 million, or 54 cents per share, a year earlier.In 2014, Hasbro held merger discussions with DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc, the studio behind “Shrek,” but DreamWorks was subsequently bought by Comcast Corp.Last year, the toymaker also held talks to acquire U.S. movie studio and entertainment company Lions Gate, but those negotiations broke down over price, sources said at the time.Hasbro has been seeking scale, and has attempted unsuccessfully to merge with peer Mattel Inc over the years, most recently in 2017. Mattel added to a sense of crisis in the toy sector by appointing its fourth chief executive in three years last week.(Reporting By Jessica Toonkel in New York; Additional reporting by Lisa Richwine in Los Angeles and Liana B. Baker and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.James Andrew Miller’s “Powerhouse: The Untold Story of Hollywood’s Creative Artists Agency” has a terrific subject for a sprawling narrative, since CAA has been at the vortex of Hollywood and commerce for more than four decades. The story has great characters, plenty of boldface names and surprising twists.“Almost any of Shakespeare’s political tragedies, or comedies, could serve as road maps to the backstage drama surrounding CAA through the decades,” Miller writes. “CAA long ago ceased to be a traditional talent agency, and what started out as a television representation business had since spiraled into movies, music, investment banking, advertising, marketing and most recently, sports.”As in his previous books (with a co-­author, Tom Shales), “Live From New York” (about “Saturday Night Live”) and “Those Guys Have All the Fun” (ESPN), Miller is mostly an invisible hand. “Powerhouse” is largely a series of direct quotations strung together in more or less chronological and topical order. While I wouldn’t go so far as to call the story “untold” (many of the key events were widely reported and written about), Miller has done an extraordinary number of interviews (more than 500, he says), and simply organizing and piecing together this wealth of material is a feat. Even more impressive is Miller’s ability to get nearly everyone involved not only to talk but also to go on the record, which is remarkable given the notorious culture of secrecy in Hollywood.Still, there are drawbacks to this approach. Few sources are naturally good storytellers, even in the entertainment business. It’s hard for Miller to build up much narrative steam, and just when he gets it going, someone rambles off on a tangent. Some sections are filled with tedious details only an insider could ­appreciate.There are too many sources doubling as characters and too many walk-on appearances. (You get a sense of what you’re in for when the cast of characters at the front of the book runs to 11 single-spaced, ­double-columned ­pages.)Transitions are nonexistent, jarring or confusing. At times Miller has to abandon the quotations and supply some much-needed connective tissue. This is also an inefficient way to tell a story — I’d estimate a more conventional narrative could have done the job in half the book’s 700-plus pages. But for readers with the patience to sift through all this semi-raw material, “Powerhouse” delivers a chronicle of vaunting ambition, immense wealth and power, and personal betrayal all the more astonishing in a business ostensibly built on loyalty and trust.Michael Ovitz and Ron Meyer, the most important of the five co-founders of CAA, loom large as both quoted sources and the most fully developed and fascinating characters. They had a remarkably close and symbiotic relationship, Meyer warm and affable, Ovitz cerebral and tough. “I didn’t trust anyone in my life more than Ron Meyer — no one, except for maybe my wife,” Ovitz says.They had help from others, but it was their fierce determination, hard work and single-minded devotion to clients and CAA that turned a fledgling talent agency into an entertainment colossus. It’s no wonder being an agent is a young person’s job: The actress Ali MacGraw packed her suitcase and walked out of a passionate romance with Meyer when he wouldn’t get off the phone with a client early one Saturday morning. (He says he doesn’t blame her.)Ovitz was once widely acknowledged as the most powerful man in Hollywood, perhaps the most powerful business person in Hollywood ever (at his peak even President Clinton was eating out of his hand). When Earvin (Magic) Johnson suggested Ovitz might someday run a studio, he replied: “Earvin, I don’t have to run a studio. I run them all now anyway.”Then Ovitz overreached and fell ignobly to earth. He blew opportunities to run two major studios — Universal and Sony — by making outrageous demands for autonomy and compensation. But why wouldn’t he have? He’d built a career on outrageous demands — for both himself and his clients — and they were invariably met.After CAA orchestrated the wildly successful 1993 polar bear ad campaign for Coca-Cola, a senior Coke executive put a $10 million check, payable to Ovitz, in the hands of a toy polar bear and had it delivered to the company. Ovitz returned the check, unendorsed, with a sticky note: “Let’s discuss this.” Ovitz eventually got $31 million.In 1995 Meyer was sent by Ovitz to New York to meet Edgar Bronfman Jr. (the Seagram’s heir and chief executive, who had just gained control of Universal) and to salvage Ovitz’s shot at running the studio. Meyer emerged with the job himself. “That’s when Ron lost me as a friend,” Judy Ovitz says. “He turned around and took the job that should have gone to Michael.” Ovitz, who never missed an hour let alone a day of work, was so stunned and depressed, people said, that he didn’t come into the office for a week.With Meyer out and a new generation at CAA — the so-called Young Turks — chafing to take over, Ovitz’s days at the agency he founded were numbered. In his own telling, he was “burned out.”For an exit commensurate with his stature, Ovitz accepted an offer from Michael Eisner to be president of Disney. After Meyer, Ovitz probably considered Eisner his best friend, and their two families had been close for years. Ovitz thought — ­erroneously — they’d be running the company as equals. Eisner fired Ovitz after little more than a year.A measure of Ovitz’s power was the vindictiveness with which former friends and colleagues greeted his downfall — none more so than his successors at CAA. As Miller puts it, “Just about anybody in Hollywood with a triple-digit I.Q. heard, firsthand or remotely, about how much the Young Turks resented and even ­hated him.” This seems especially ungrateful since Ovitz had paid them lavishly, ­handed them clients, built the agency and then sold it to them for the bargain price of $175 million. (By 2010, it was valued at $700 million.)True, the Turks — Kevin Huvane, Bryan Lourd, Richard Lovett, Jay Moloney and David O’Connor — thought they’d been lied to or misled about matters large and small: who earned what; whether CAA owned a private jet; who had an equity stake in CAA’s headquarters building. But none of that seems adequate to explain the intensity of their resentment (which the more genial Meyer seems to have escaped). Miller speculates: “The Young Turks were prodigal sons, with the agency functioning like the trust fund a rich kid gets when turning 25.”But the Turks seem to have risen to the challenge. They had to cope not only with the inevitable upheavals that accompany succession but also with tectonic changes in the entertainment business, starting with the collapse of the DVD market and the withering of revenues from feature films, which once contributed the major portion of CAA’s profits.These new leaders had to rethink the nature of the agency business, pushing boldly beyond marketing and investment banking, the expanded boundaries Ovitz and Meyer had laid down. It’s hard to manage change of that magnitude.For CAA, the biggest financial change came in 2010, when it sold a 35 percent stake to one of the biggest and most successful private equity firms, TPG Capital, for $166 million. TPG got a majority share four years later in a financing deal that raised another $435 million, which lifted the value of CAA to more than $1 billion. The infusion of capital enabled the company to become a principal — not just an intermediary — by investing its own capital in projects.It’s too soon to know how that’s going to turn out. We may find out if and when CAA is sold again or goes public, which, for a private equity firm like TPG, would typically be seven to nine years after making the investment.Miller suggests CAA’s best days are behind it. Today, only three of the Young Turks remain at the firm. Moloney, the one closest to Ovitz, who had been viewed as his chosen successor, died in 1999 after struggling with cocaine addiction, apparently by suicide. After 32 years at CAA, O’Connor left in 2015 to become chief executive of Madison Square Garden.CAA is now big and impersonal and focused on the bottom line, which seems to have taken a lot of the fun out of being an agent there (not to mention reading about them). Even so, if money and power are the measure of success in Hollywood, then access to the hundreds of millions in capital TPG delivered gives CAA the potential to be far more powerful than anything Ovitz and Meyer ever envisioned.But money and power may not be the only or even best measure of success in Hollywood. Perhaps I’m naïve, but I came away from the book with the sense that CAA’s most enduring legacy will be the impact its agents had on the lives and careers of their many clients, amply documented in “Powerhouse.” The best of the entertainment they created will be remembered long after CAA is gone.“I think it’s a ghastly way to make a living,” Ali MacGraw says of the agent business. “But if you’re really good at it like Ron was, you must gain some tremendous happiness by changing people’s lives so dramatically.”Ovitz may still be reviled by some, but not his clients. “I’ve never known anybody like Mike Ovitz,” David Letterman says. “There is nobody like him. He was such an overwhelming positive force, and in show business there are not many positive ­forces. He put me back on my feet. It’s comparable to my heart surgery, for God’s sake.”James B. Stewart writes “Common Sense,” a weekly business column, for The Times and is the author of nine books, including “DisneyWar” and “Den of Thieves.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS