AdvertisementSupported by(Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, which agreed in December to sell most of its assets to Walt Disney Co for $52.4 billion, had previously rejected a bid from Comcast Corp over concerns about the regulatory risks and its stock value, a regulatory filing on Wednesday showed.The joint filing by Disney and Fox, which outlines the timeline of their negotiations, offers the most detailed insight yet into Fox's thinking, as it goes head-to-head against Comcast, a U.S. cable operator, in its bid to acquire European pay-TV company Sky Plc, in which Fox holds a 39 percent stake.Comcast announced in February it was working on a $31 billion bid that would top Fox's deal for Sky. It has not made a new attempt to bid for the Fox assets after the Disney deal, so investors are keen for information on the hurdles that prevented an agreement between Fox and Comcast.The filing does not mention Comcast by name, but refers to it as Party B. Another bidder for the Fox assets, U.S. wireless carrier Verizon Communications Inc, is referred to as Party A.Verizon and Comcast representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Comcast on Nov. 14 offered to acquire most of Fox's assets in an all-stock deal valued at $34.41 per share, the filings said. Fox ended up announcing an all-stock deal with Disney for $29.54 per share.Like Disney, Comcast sought to buy Fox's entertainment networks, movie studios, television production and international assets, the documents show.In the filing, Disney and Fox said the ongoing antitrust scrutiny of U.S. telecommunications provider AT&T Inc's planned merger with media conglomerate Time Warner Inc heightened concerns about potential regulatory hurdles to Comcast's bid. The U.S. Department of Justice has sued AT&T and Time Warner to thwart their deal, and the case is in court.The companies added that, unlike Disney, Comcast declined to offer a reverse deal termination fee, which would compensate Fox in the event that regulators stymied a deal. Disney offered a reverse termination fee of $2.5 billion.The companies also said that Fox saw Disney's stock as more valuable than Comcast's, based on historic prices, and felt that a deal between Disney and Fox would generate greater long-term value. The Roberts family controls Comcast through a dual-class stock structure.Comcast's proposal, on the other hand, would reduce the compensation offered to Fox shareholders in the event that asset sales were required to reassure antitrust regulators, increasing the potential risk to Fox shareholders, the filing said.Verizon's bid was rejected because it offered to acquire Fox at market value, without a meaningful premium, according to the filing.(Reporting by Carl O'Donnell in New York and Ankur Banerjee in Bangalore; Editing by Richard Chang)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementCULVER CITY, Calif. — It was as if they were stepping into 1940, the heart of Hollywood’s golden age.The stucco bungalow where Orson Welles puffed on his pipe between “Citizen Kane” scenes shimmered in the sun. White roses bloomed along a path leading to the cottage where Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh changed into their “Gone With the Wind” costumes. You half expected Cecil B. DeMille to come bounding out of the nearby studio administration building, a mansion modeled after Mount Vernon, to bawl out an underling.Yet a gathering here last week was not about Hollywood’s past as much as its future. The official purpose was to commemorate the $12 million restoration of four studio buildings. But the visitors may as well have come to cut the ribbon on a new era in the entertainment industry — one marked by the ascent of streaming giants like Amazon Studios, the compound’s new tenant.Advertisement“So exciting!” Ms. Salke said, shaking Mr. Cooper’s hand. Two of her Amazon Studios lieutenants, Albert Cheng and Jason Ropell, clapped nearby.AdvertisementBut Amazon’s decision to move its entertainment division to the compound under a 15-year lease — the company had been using nondescript offices in Santa Monica — demonstrates the degree to which the tech giants have woven themselves into the fabric of Hollywood. You can no longer separate one from the other.“This is mixing old media and new media in a completely harmonious way,” Michael Hackman, chief executive of Hackman Capital Partners, said by phone on Wednesday.“I like the sense of history because it holds us to a standard,” Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, said when a reporter asked him about the Culver Studios move at an Oscar-season cocktail party.Culver Studios may have a grand past — “Raging Bull” and “E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial” were made here, along with the pilot for the original “Star Trek” television series — but the complex also epitomizes the troubles the movie business has encountered over the decades.By 2004, when a struggling Sony sold the property, years of underinvestment had taken a toll. The old star bungalows were in poor repair. Soundstages were outdated. The mansion smelled like Grandma’s house. “It needed a lot of work, to say the least,” Mr. Hackman said. (Contrary to popular belief, the mansion was not Tara in “Gone With the Wind.”)AdvertisementAmazon, which has roughly 700 entertainment employees, began moving staff here late last year. More will follow as buildings are completed.“It’s about recognizing the traditions and legacy of Hollywood, while also recognizing that we have the ability to reshape it,” Mr. Cheng, chief operating officer of Amazon Studios, said of the decision to make Culver Studios the unit’s headquarters.But nothing quite matches the restoration of Culver Studios, in part because Hackman Capital has paid lavish attention to detail.Advertisement“They even took pains to recreate the same texture and color of the cement,” said Margarita Jerabek, director of historic resources at ESA, a planning firm involved in the project. She pointed to steps leading into the bungalow once used by Gable and Leigh as a dressing room.“I personally have not seen him yet,” Mr. Cheng said. “But I’m sure he’s happy. We plan to take very good care of our new home.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe presidential race looms very large down the ballot. And as we examine the state of the Senate, House and gubernatorial races coming up this year and next, the presidential outcome may be especially important in the highest-profile category: the Senate.This concern for the fate of the broader Republican Party can be seen in the skittishness of party activists, conservatives and congressional leaders.Advertisementa campaign to stop Donald Trump from becoming the Republican presidential nominee has the support of nearly 400 delegates to the G.O.P.’s convention next month, according to organizers, quickly transforming what began as an idea tossed around on social media into a force that could derail a national campaign.AdvertisementA week earlier, Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, cut off reporters’ questions about Trump, declaringI’m not going to be commenting on the presidential candidates today.Well, first of all I feel like I have certain responsibilities, as not just Congressman Paul Ryan from the first district of Wisconsin, but as Speaker of the House. And imagine the Speaker of the House not supporting the duly elected nominee of our party, therefore creating a chasm in our party to split us in half, which basically helps deny us the White House, and strong majorities in Congress.As if that were not enough, Ryan continued down this path:The last thing I want to see happen is another Democrat in the White House. I don’t want see Hillary Clinton as president. I want to see a strong majority in the House and the Senate. And I think the way to achieve those goals is to have a more unified party, than a disunified party. Now having said that, you know me well, Chuck. If something is done and said that I don’t agree with that I think puts a bad label on conservatism, then I’m going to speak out on it as I have, as I will continue to do, and I hope I don’t have to keep doing.Less publicized trends among key demographic groups are compounding Republican anxiety. Trump’s heaviest losses, according to survey data, are among those voters he most needs to remain competitive: whites and especially white men.When you compare polls taken between May 22 and 25 (the high point to date for Trump in matchups with Hillary Clinton) with polls published over the last week, you can see how much damage Trump has inflicted on himself. In matchups with Clinton, Trump has experienced double digit declines in support from men, from young voters, from all whites and from white college graduates in particular.AdvertisementThere are other recent measures of Republican disaffection and Democratic enthusiasm.You know the Republicans — honestly folks, our leaders, our leaders have to get tougher. This is too tough to do it alone, but you know what I think I’m going to be forced to. I think I’m going to be forced to. Our leaders have to get a lot tougher. And be quiet. Just please be quiet. Don’t talk. Please be quiet. Just be quiet to the leaders because they have to get tougher, they have to get sharper, they have to get smarter. We have to have our Republicans either stick together or let me just do it by myself. I’ll do very well. I’m going to do very well. O.K.? I’m going to do very well. A lot of people thought I should do that anyway but I’ll just do it very nicely by myself.As Trump becomes the indelible image of the Republican Party, the problems for Republican candidates seeking to distance themselves from him are only going to worsen. Trump’s imprint on the party will be cemented in the minds of many voters during the convention in Cleveland from July 18-21, which Trump intends to turn into a four-day spectacle focused on his persona — an entertainment extravaganza designed to hold millions of voters to their television (and other) screens.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A number of analyses confirm that Republicans are correct to worry that their Senate or even their House majority could be overturned.The Republican Senate majority is tenuous even if the G.O.P. underperforms even a little on Election Day, even without a disruptive candidate at the top of the ticket. With the G.O.P. majority at 54 to 46, Democrats need a four-seat net gain if they hold the White House.In the House, Cook wrote, aplausible scenario, assuming the G.O.P. presidential ticket is weak, would be a loss of a dozen or more seats for Republicans, cutting their House margin in half. Given the G.O.P.’s difficulty in pushing through legislation even with the largest House majority since 1928, Paul Ryan will have a devil of a time winning votes if he loses this cushion.meaning that the presidential candidate brought so many voters into their column that the other candidates got votes they didn’t even anticipate. And, of course, the opposite happens as well. Very unpopular presidential candidates often cause down-ballot candidates to lose.AdvertisementFinally. After almost two months of wasted motion, Trump put a frame on the race — Clinton as corrupt insider, Trump as crusading outsider — that could actually beat the former First Lady, New York Senator and Secretary of State. The problem? The messenger.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementLOS ANGELES —  Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige talks about his job like a fan who's just lucky to be there.To hear his genuine enthusiasm about the movies, the actors, the audience and the stories almost belies the fact that he is essentially the architect of and driving force behind Hollywood's most valuable brand that has in just over 10 years netted over $14.8 billion in worldwide grosses (according to comScore) and become the envy of every studio executive in town.He's a mogul with a fanboy's verve who has helped to change the very fabric of the entertainment industry.Ten years ago, many moviegoers didn't know who Iron Man was, and those who did thought of him as a minor comic book character. On Thursday, Marvel Studios' 19th film, "Avengers: Infinity War," an epic mashup of characters once considered to be part of the "superhero B-list," from Iron Man to Star Lord, opens in theaters worldwide. It is cruising for a record-breaking debut that could surpass "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" as the biggest opening ever.AdvertisementThe scope of the Marvel effect is somewhat difficult to pin down, especially with a force as formidable as The Walt Disney Co. behind it. (Disney acquired Marvel Entertainment for $4 billion in 2009.)AdvertisementIt's revitalized careers (Robert Downey Jr.), minted movie stars (Chris Hemsworth, Chris Evans and Chris Pratt, to name a few), and become an outpost for Oscar-winners too (like Robert Redford, Gwyneth Paltrow, Anthony Hopkins, Natalie Portman, Jeff Bridges, Michael Douglas and Cate Blanchett).And beyond that, every few months the studio seems to be breaking new ground, whether it's as small as a change in tone, like "Thor: Ragnarok," or as big as producing a downright cultural phenomenon, such as "Black Panther," now the third highest-grossing domestic film of all time."We dream big at Marvel Studios. We have very lofty aspirations at Marvel Studios. For those dreams to be surpassed is saying something," Feige, 44, said of "Black Panther's" success.And it shows no sign of slowing down, or running out of story. They have 70 years of comic book source material to draw on, after all."There are still things that are key elements to a lot of our characters in their comic incarnations that we haven't even done yet for characters who have had three or four movies," Feige said. "It is an amazing wealth of creative material to pull from."Feige is amused when reporters try to predict Marvel's next move, or make big conclusions based on what's just happened. Under Feige, Marvel is not looking in the rear-view mirror.When "Thor: Ragnarok" came out, he remembers reading articles declaring that, "Marvel is committing to a surrealist, silly tone" and just laughed.Advertisement"I thought, 'We have 'Black Panther' coming out in three months! They don't even know what's coming,'" Feige said. "We're always thinking ahead. Just when people think they can pin us down, we go somewhere else and that's going to happen again after 'Infinity War' in the build-up to the next Avengers film. And we had meetings earlier today about 2024 and 2025."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Misunderstanding Feige's vision is almost a tradition at this point, going back to Comic-Con in 2006 where he revealed his plans for the first few films —Iron Man, Ant-Man and The Incredible Hulk — and all anyone wrote about is how Marvel Studios didn't have the rights to Spider-Man (Sony does), the X-Men or the Fantastic Four (those reside at 20th Century Fox).Now, few would argue that Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, Black Panther, the Guardians of the Galaxy and even Doctor Strange and Ant-Man aren't veritable A-listers on their own, and even more powerful together, making up what is perhaps Marvel's greatest innovation — the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This idea of an interconnected, ever-expanding "universe" of characters and films is something that many have since tried to copy to varying degrees of success. It seems audiences don't begrudge Marvel for creating the concept, but are somewhat more skeptical of those trying to capitalize on it."(Marvel's) approach doesn't seem nearly as cynical as when you see another studio trying to do it with, say, Ghostbusters or DC," said Wall Street Journal reporter Ben Fritz, who delves into Marvel's history in the book "The Big Picture: The Fight for the Future of Movies." ''People are like, 'Oh I know what you're doing, you're trying to copy Marvel.' But Marvel did it first and Marvel has still done it best.""Sequel fatigue" doesn't even seem to apply to Marvel films anymore."I think you can look at Marvel as a grand narrative experiment," said 'Infinity War' co-director Joe Russo. "Never before in films have we seen this many franchises combined over this many years into one giant mosaic. Two-hour, two-dimensional storytelling has dominated American culture for 100 years and now we're consuming content with such extreme speed that we need new forms of storytelling. I think what Marvel is doing is a new form of storytelling.""Infinity War" co-screenwriter Stephen McFeely, who also co-wrote the three Captain America films, said Feige should get the film academy's Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award for his impact on the industry."He's clearly changed the way Hollywood works, or at least the top box office end of it," McFeely said. "It's in part because Kevin has a really good mind for story — he's ambitious — but he's not so ambitious that he's not going to do the right thing for the movie in front of his face."While navel-gazing isn't Feige's favorite activity, the 10-year anniversary of "Iron Man" hitting theaters has provided an excuse to reflect a bit. He still remembers the early days, when they had everything to prove and felt grateful for the chance to produce films on their own. While the grand plans and concurrent filmmaking have gotten more complex over the years and "the days have gotten longer," Feige said the fundamental processes for how they make films goes back to the beginning."It was in the cutting rooms of 'Iron Man 1' that in a lot of ways the Marvel Studios process was born — of just keep trying things and keep turning things over and don't rest on your laurels and just because something is working doesn't mean it can't work better," Feige said.AdvertisementAudiences won't have to wait too long for another Avengers, either. The fourth Avengers film, also directed by Joe and Anthony Russo and written by McFeely and Christopher Markus is just around the corner, set for a May 2019 release. It's a continuation of the story that begins in "Infinity War," where a still-fractured Avengers face Thanos (Josh Brolin). Little is being revealed beyond that. The film premiered Monday night in Los Angeles and is said to be full of surprises."We make movies we believe in. We make movies that we think will be entertaining to ourselves and think about ourselves as the first audience members for any movie we make. Any idea that comes up in a room: Would we be entertained by this? Would we be moved by this? Would we be surprised by this?" Feige said."It goes back to the movies I loved growing up. I always loved sequels. I never found myself being cynical or dismissive of sequels. If they were bad, I was disappointed. But I always loved the promise of seeing the further storylines or further adventures of characters I'd grown to love. That's all we're doing."___Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byToday in HistoryToday is Monday, April 30, the 120th day of 2018. There are 245 days left in the year.Today's Highlight in History:On April 30, 1945, as Soviet troops approached his Berlin bunker, Adolf Hitler committed suicide along with his wife of one day, Eva Braun.On this date:In 1789, George Washington took the oath of office in New York as the first president of the United States.In 1803, the United States purchased the Louisiana Territory from France for 60 million francs, the equivalent of about $15 million.In 1812, Louisiana became the 18th state of the Union.In 1900, engineer John Luther "Casey" Jones of the Illinois Central Railroad died in a train wreck near Vaughan, Mississippi, after staying at the controls in a successful effort to save the passengers.In 1939, the New York World's Fair officially opened with a ceremony that included an address by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.In 1948, the Organization of American States was founded with the signing of its charter in Bogota, Colombia.In 1958, Britain's Life Peerages Act 1958 allowed women to become members of the House of Lords.In 1968, New York City police forcibly removed student demonstrators occupying five buildings at Columbia University.In 1973, President Richard Nixon announced the resignations of top aides H.R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman, Attorney General Richard G. Kleindienst and White House counsel John Dean, who was actually fired.In 1975, the Vietnam War ended as the South Vietnamese capital of Saigon fell to Communist forces.In 1988, Gen. Manuel Noriega, brandishing a machete, vowed at a rally to keep fighting U.S. efforts to oust him as Panama's military ruler.In 1993, top-ranked women's tennis player Monica Seles was stabbed in the back during a match in Hamburg, Germany, by a man who described himself as a fan of second-ranked German player Steffi Graf. (The man, convicted of causing grievous bodily harm, was given a suspended sentence.)Ten years ago: The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for a seventh straight time, reducing the federal funds rate a quarter-point to 2 percent. An avalanche in Italy's northwestern Alps killed five French ski-mountaineers.Five years ago: President Barack Obama said he wanted more information about chemical weapons use in the Syrian civil war before deciding on escalating U.S. military or diplomatic responses, despite earlier assertions that use of such weapons would be a "game-changer." The FDA lowered to 15 the age at which females could buy the Plan B emergency contraceptive without a prescription, and said it no longer had to be kept behind pharmacy counters. Willem-Alexander became the first Dutch king in more than a century as his mother, Beatrix, abdicated after 33 years as queen.One year ago: President Donald Trump said after North Korea's latest failed rocket launch that communist leader Kim Jong Un would eventually develop better missiles, and that "we can't allow it to happen"; in a taped interview broadcast on CBS' "Face the Nation," the president would not discuss the possibility of military action. Police shot and killed a 49-year-old man suspected of shooting seven people, one fatally, during a birthday pool party at an apartment complex in San Diego. "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" won the Daytime Emmy Award for best entertainment talk show, 20 years to the day that her character came out as gay on the sitcom "Ellen."Today's Birthdays: Actress Cloris Leachman is 92. Singer Willie Nelson is 85. Actor Burt Young is 78. King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden is 72. Movie director Allan Arkush is 70. Actor Perry King is 70. Singer-musician Wayne Kramer is 70. Singer Merrill Osmond is 65. Movie director Jane Campion is 64. Movie director Lars von Trier is 62. Former Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper is 59. Actor Paul Gross is 59. Basketball Hall of Famer Isiah Thomas is 57. Country musician Robert Reynolds is 56. Actor Adrian Pasdar is 53. Rock singer J.R. Richards (Dishwalla) is 51. Rapper Turbo B (Snap) is 51. Rock musician Clark Vogeler is 49. Rhythm-and-blues singer Chris "Choc" Dalyrimple (Soul For Real) is 47. Rock musician Chris Henderson (3 Doors Down) is 47. Country singer Carolyn Dawn Johnson is 47. Actress Lisa Dean Ryan is 46. Rhythm-and-blues singer Akon is 45. Rhythm-and-blues singer Jeff Timmons (98 Degrees) is 45. Actor Johnny Galecki is 43. Singer-musician Cole Deggs (Cole Deggs and the Lonesome) is 42. Actor Sam Heughan is 38. Actor Kunal Nayyar is 37. Rapper Lloyd Banks is 36. Actress Kirsten Dunst is 36. Country singer Tyler Wilkinson (The Wilkinsons) is 34. Actress Dianna Agron is 32.Thought for Today: "In America, getting on in the world means getting out of the world we have known before." — Ellery Sedgwick, American editor (1872-1960).AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byLOS ANGELES — The global social media movement known through the Twitter hashtag #MeToo has highlighted sexual misconduct in business, entertainment and politics, and will be on the agenda at this year's Milken Institute Global Conference, which starts on Sunday.Beginning with accusations of misconduct starting in October against Hollywood movie producer Harvey Weinstein, which he has denied, #MeToo has already derailed the careers of dozens of entertainers, journalists, politicians and corporate executives.It will now also be a focus of the Milken conference, which considers how market principles can be applied to social problems. The conference is being staged at the Beverly Hilton by the Milken Institute, a think tank endowed by former Drexel Burnham Lambert banker Michael Milken.Milken, once considered Wall Street's "Junk Bond King," experienced his own fall from power after his 1989 indictment in an insider trading probe. After pleading guilty to securities violations, he served about two years in prison and has since devoted his life to philanthropic efforts.The Milken conference, which tries to set standards for corporate behavior, will this year feature a panel with actress Ashley Judd, who is one of Weinstein's accusers, on how the momentum around the #MeToo movement can last.One panel on Tuesday is called "How to be a Man in 2018," while another that day focuses on women seeking to overcome the “boys club” mentality often associated with the Silicon Valley technology industry.“Women are at the forefront of some of the world’s most disruptive and innovative companies but continue to battle systemic, outdated barriers and bias across industries,” said Canadian entrepreneur Janice McDonald, one of the speakers this year.Since the accusations against Weinstein, men like Amazon Studios’ Roy Price, Minnesota Senator Al Franken, Hollywood stars Kevin Spacey and Louis C.K., TV anchors Matt Lauer and Charlie Rose, celebrity chefs Mario Batali and John Besh, and casino magnate Steve Wynn have fallen from their positions amid allegations of sexual harassment or assault.Meanwhile, Bill Cosby, the comedian long thought of as “America’s Dad,” was convicted of sexual assault on April 27, more than three years after such allegations began to destroy his own reputation..Milken organizers say the organization has highlighted gender diversity issues for several years, but #MeToo has put a spotlight on the topic.Other related issues in business include persistent pay gaps between men and women, and a lack of diversity in corporate boardrooms, where women occupy just one in five board seats.In a recent report, Linda-Eling Lee, global head of research for MSCI's ESG Research group, said that after studying U.S. companies between 2011-2016, companies with at least three women on the board experienced median gains in return on equity (ROE)of 10 percentage points and earnings per share (EPS) of 37 percent.In contrast, companies that began the five-year period with no female directors experienced median changes of minus one percentage point in ROE and minus 8 percent in EPS over the study period.Milken conference organizers said women will likely comprise at least 30 percent of the conference’s more than 4,000 attendees and more than 700 speakers.Other conferences are making similar efforts, including the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. About 21.1 percent of Davos attendees were women in 2018, up from 20.3 percent last year, while women held 26.1 percent of speaker roles, up from 25.3 percent."There has been an intention to have a more diverse set of attendees and speakers," Milken Institute president Richard Ditizio said in an interview.Ditizio added that the non-profit group, has been doing gender related programming for years, but #Metoo offers an opportunity to "draw more attention to that specific angle of the issue."Investment manager State Street Global Advisors will be bringing to the event a replica statue of the young defiant girl that it placed in the heart of New York's financial district in 2017, to ignite a discussion around the power of women in leadership and the benefits of more diversity in the corporate world.(Reporting by Liana B. Baker and Anna Irrera in Los Angeles; Editing by Jennifer Ablan)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byLOS ANGELES — Oprah Winfrey pushing hard on the promotional circuit. Pent-up demand for a PG-rated Disney film. The first movie in four years from a filmmaker heralded as a visionary. A production and marketing budget of at least $150 million.“A Wrinkle in Time” collected an additional $6.3 million in limited release overseas (about 14 percent of the international marketplace), according to Disney. It will roll out later in March in important markets like Britain, Mexico, Australia and Brazil.For the weekend in North America, “Strangers: Prey at Night” (Aviron), a low-budget, R-rated horror movie, arrived in third place, collecting roughly $10.5 million. Two other new wide-release movies, “The Hurricane Heist” (Entertainment Studios) and “Gringo,” an Amazon-financed movie that was distributed by STXfilms, were dead on arrival, collecting less than $3.2 million each, according to comScore.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSFathom Events, Turner Classic Movies and Warner Bros. Home Entertainment invite you to a classic holiday double feature event with  A Christmas Carol (’38) and Christmas in Connecticut (’45) in select cinemas nationwide on Sunday, December 7 only. BAdvertisementLOS ANGELES — Charles H. Rivkin began his Hollywood career in 1988, when Jim Henson hired him to plot a business future for Kermit the Frog.AdvertisementDepending on your perspective — and whether or not you see opportunity in upheaval — Mr. Rivkin’s timing either is perfect or couldn’t be worse.AdvertisementBut Hollywood has changed immensely in the time he has been away.Attendance at theaters in the United States and Canada dropped 6 percent in 2017, to a 22-year low. Yet studios are more reliant than ever on the box office. Squeezed by the rise of subscription streaming services like Netflix, the six major studios reported an 18 percent drop in home-video rental and sales revenue, including video-on-demand purchases, in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the 2016 period.Digital TV Research, a British media consultancy, estimated in October that piracy would cost the global movie and television business $37.4 billion in lost revenue this year, an 18 percent increase from 2017. Losses in 2022 were projected to reach $51.6 billion.Mergers could lead to budget cuts for the nonprofit Motion Picture Association. Under the current setup, the six member studios chip in more than $16 million apiece annually to fund the association’s global operations, according to tax filings.“I do not think we have punched our weight in terms of influence — the power that we should have, given the jobs we support,” said Jeff Shell, chairman of the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, which includes Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features. Mr. Shell added that the M.P.A.A. is “a big, complicated organization and needs an executive to go in and rethink every part as a business — what should be invested in and grown, what should be scaled back.”AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Rivkin acknowledged that the organization faces challenges big and small, including questions about its identity and its structure. Netflix plans to release 80 original movies this year but is not a member. Should it be? But he spoke about solutions with a confidence that felt genuine, calling the association “a dust-covered diamond that can easily shine again.”“Reinvigorated at every level,” he said of the association.At the same time, Mr. Rivkin aggressively disputed the notion that Mr. Trump and Hollywood are on opposite sides.“President Trump probably knows this industry better than any president since Reagan,” he said. “I think he understands that entertainment is important both as an economic force — jobs in every single state — and as a projection of American values. It’s our soft power. It’s showing the world what America is capable of.”AdvertisementHerding studio chiefs is harder than it used to be. In Mr. Valenti’s era, the film factories were stand-alone entities whose interests were in lock step. Today, the studios are owned by sprawling conglomerates, which employ their own lobbyists and often have competing interests.One of Mr. Rivkin’s cousins, the Democratic fund-raiser and education advocate Jamie Alter Lynton, is married to Mr. Lynton, the former Sony chief.Brian Henson, chairman of the Henson Company and Jim Henson’s son, agreed — with a twist.“I think that putting his ego aside actually is part of his ego,” he said. “Charlie wants to be the guy who makes things happen for others.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWASHINGTON —  Tending to bonding before business, President Donald Trump and France's Emmanuel Macron opened the French president's visit Monday with an anything-but-ordinary double date with their wives at George Washington's house.The presidents and their spouses hopped on a helicopter bound for Mount Vernon, Washington's historic riverside home, for a private dinner one night before the leaders sit down for talks on a weighty agenda including security, trade and the Iran nuclear deal.Macron's pomp-filled three-day state visit to Washington underscores the importance that both sides attach to the relationship: Macron, who calls Trump often, has emerged as something of a "Trump whisperer" at a time when the American president's relationships with other European leaders are more strained. Trump, who attaches great importance to the optics of pageantry and ceremony, chose to honor Macron with the first state visit of his administration as he woos the French president."This is a great honor and I think a very important state visit given the moment of our current environment," Macron said after his plane landed at a U.S. military base near Washington.AdvertisementFor all their camaraderie, Macron and Trump disagree on some fundamental issues, including the multinational nuclear deal, which is aimed at restricting Iran's development of nuclear weapons. Trump, skeptical of the pact's effectiveness, has been eager to pull out as a May 12 deadline nears. Macron says he is not satisfied with the situation in Iran and thinks the agreement is imperfect, but he has argued for the U.S. sticking with the deal on the grounds that there is not yet a "Plan B."AdvertisementThe Trumps and Macrons helped plant a tree on the White House grounds together before boarding Trump's Marine One helicopter for a scenic tour of monuments built in the capital city designed by French-born Pierre L'Enfant as they flew south to Mount Vernon, the first U.S. president's home along the Potomac River.The young oak is an environmentally friendly gift to the White House from Macron, and one that also bears historical significance. It sprouted at a World War I site in France, the Battle of Belleau Wood, that became part of U.S. Marine Corps lore.After Trump's helicopter landed at Mount Vernon, the two presidents, each holding his wife's hand, walked a short distance and posed for pictures before they boarded golf carts that ferried them to the front door of Washington's plantation house. The couples were led on a brief outdoor tour before they entered the pale yellow building for dinner of Dover sole, pasta stuffed with lemon ricotta, and chocolate souffle and cherry vanilla ice cream.Trump declared the dinner "really fantastic" before returning to the White House.He ended his first year in office without receiving a foreign leader on a state visit, the first president in nearly 100 years to fail to do so. He was Macron's guest last July at the annual Bastille Day military parade in the center of Paris. Macron and his wife also took Trump and America's first lady on a tour of Napoleon's tomb and whisked them up in the Eiffel Tower for dinner overlooking the City of Light.Macron will be welcomed back to the White House on Tuesday with a traditional arrival ceremony featuring nearly 500 members of the U.S. military and a booming 21-gun salute. The state visit also offers Macron his first Oval Office sit-down with Trump and a joint White House news conference. There's also a State Department lunch hosted by Vice President Mike Pence.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The French president's White House day will be capped Tuesday night with a state dinner, the highest social tribute a president bestows on an ally and partner.Melania Trump played an active role in every detail of the visit, said White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders.The first lady settled on a state dinner menu of rack of lamb and nectarine tart, along with after-dinner entertainment provided by the Washington National Opera for about 150 guests. On Monday, she released details of the glitzy affair being planned to dazzle Macron and his wife, Brigitte.AdvertisementDinner will be served in the State Dining Room, which will feature more than 2,500 stems of white sweet pea flowers and nearly 1,000 stems of white lilac. Separately, more than 1,200 branches of cherry blossoms will adorn the majestic Cross Hall.The first lady opted for a cream-and-gold color scheme, and will use a mix of china services from the presidencies of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.State dinner tickets are highly sought after by Washington's political and business elite. A few of those expected to attend: Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund and a former top French government official; House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.; Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and his wife, Louise Linton; Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., and Mike Pompeo, Trump's choice to be the next secretary of state.In a break with tradition, Trump has invited no congressional Democrats or journalists, said a White House official who was not authorized to discuss the arrangements publicly. But some Democrats did make the cut, including Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards, whose office confirmed his attendance.___Go to Home Page »