It's the closing night at the last drive-in theater in America and Cecil B. Kaufman (Richard Riehle, Bridesmaids, Hatchet) has planned the ultimate marathon of lost film prints to unleash upon his faithful cinephile patrons. Four films so rare thatAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBefore reading the article:What had you heard about the Golden Globe Awards before the ceremony on Sunday night? Many women, and men as well, who attended the ceremony wore only black. Do you know what this action protested?Finally, tell us more about what you think:What are your thoughts on these observations? Do you think that celebrities aren’t risking anything with such acts of protest? Must protest involve risk to be effective?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEd Sheeran, Eminem, Maroon 5 and Cardi B all performed on Sunday night as part of the iHeartRadio Music Awards, a testament to the company’s dominance over the radio business. Its roughly 850 stations, the most of any American broadcaster, still wield considerable hitmaking power, even in the age of streaming.But on Thursday, iHeartRadio’s parent company, iHeartMedia, filed for bankruptcy protection in an attempt to restructure part of the $20 billion debt load that has burdened it since a leveraged buyout a decade ago, on the eve of the 2008 recession.The company announced that it had reached agreements with creditors to reduce its debt by more than $10 billion. It said it would continue to operate its stations during the process.According to court filings, iHeartMedia, known as Clear Channel Communications until 2014, paid $1.4 billion last year in interest on its debts. Its media division, which includes the broadcast stations, a popular music app and a unit that syndicates shows by Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and others, had $3.6 billion in revenue and $735 million in operating income.Counting its global business in outdoor billboards, which is not part of the bankruptcy, the company had $6.2 billion in revenue over all.It is also the latest and most high-profile shift in the tumultuous radio business, which has struggled to retain advertising dollars and compete with streaming services like Spotify and Pandora.IHeart’s bankruptcy filing was announced on the same day that Spotify held an investor presentation in advance of its public listing on the New York Stock Exchange.Annual advertising, radio’s chief revenue source, has hovered around $16 billion for years, according to a report last year by the accounting firm PwC. By 2021, the report projected, that figure, for terrestrial broadcast stations, would reach only $16.6 billion, with a 10-year compounded annual growth rate of just 0.425 percent.The company’s terrestrial stations, it says, reach 271 million people each month, and in many markets it operates multiple outlets. There are eight iHeart stations in Los Angeles, for example, and six in New York, including Z100, a pop powerhouse.Still, iHeartMedia has moved aggressively into the online market, renaming itself four years ago after a music app that its disc jockeys promote relentlessly on the air.“We have transformed a traditional broadcast radio company into a true 21st-century multiplatform, data-driven, digitally focused media and entertainment powerhouse with unparalleled reach, products and services now available on more than 200 platforms,” Robert W. Pittman, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement announcing the bankruptcy filing.Lance Vitanza, an analyst at Cowen, said that iHeartMedia had done better than most radio companies in expanding its audience and adapting to new technologies, but that debt had weighed it down — a burden that could find relief through the bankruptcy process.“Ultimately, when they come out of bankruptcy, they will be in a much better position,” Mr. Vitanza said. “We expect them to be able to focus their resources on growing their business rather than on debt service, which is what they’ve had to do for the last 10 years.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSCaptain James B. Pirk of the Starship C.P.P. Kickstart and his crew, Commander Dwarf and Commander Info, find themselves stranded on 21st Century Earth after a previous adventure to save the planet from hostile aliens.Life is not good and Pirk’GeoHunt is a fast-growing community of adventure-seekers who play hide-and-seek around the globe using GPS devices. Anyone can play and search for treasures. In the movie, four twentysomethings who are in the game of geohunting fall for a trap set bNew York City DJ/songwriter Jack Morell (Steve Guttenberg) needs just one big break to get his music heard and land a record deal. But with the help of his retired supermodel roommate (Valerie Perrine) and an uptight tax attorney (Olympic champion BAdvertisementNEW YORK —  A whole lot of superheroes added up to a whole lot of ticket sales. The superhero smorgasbord "Avengers: Infinity Wars" opened with predictable shock-and-awe, earning $250 million in box office over the weekend and edging past "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" to set the highest opening weekend of all-time."Infinity War," which brings together some two dozen superheroes in the 10-year culmination of Marvel Studio's "cinematic universe," also set a new global opening record with $630 million even though it's yet to open in China, the world's second-largest movie market. It opens there May 11.According to the Walt Disney Co.'s estimates Sunday, "Infinity War" overwhelmed the previous global best ("The Fate of the Furious" with $541.9 million) but narrowly topped "The Force Awakens" in North America. The "Star Wars" reboot debuted with $248 million in 2015, which would translate to about $260 million accounting for inflation.But both intergalactic behemoths belong to Disney, which now owns nine of the top 10 opening weekends ever — six belonging to Marvel releases. That includes "Black Panther," which has grossed $1.3 billion since opening in February and still managed to rank fifth at this weekend's box office, thanks partially to Marvel fans self-programming a double-feature.AdvertisementThe track record for Marvel, along with the hyper, extravagant effort put into the long-planned "Infinity War," made the record-setting weekend something of a fait accompli. After ten years, 18 prior films and some $15 billion in box office, the weekend was an assured and long-awaited coronation for Kevin Feige's Marvel, the most dominant force in a Hollywood with precious few sure things.Advertisement"To have now the biggest movie of domestic history as one of the Marvel cinematic universe films seems like a fitting tribute to the Marvel Studios team which has had just an astounding, unmatched run in the last decade," said Dave Hollis, head of distribution for Disney.By any measure, the 2-hour-and-40 minute-long "Infinity War" is one of the largest films ever assembled. With a production budget reportedly almost $300 million, Joe and Anthony Russo's film brings together the stars of Marvel's superhero stable, including Robert Downey Jr.'s Iron Man, Chris Hemsworth's Thor, Chadwick Boseman's Black Panther, Chris Evans' Captain America, Mark Ruffalo's Hulk, and many more.It was shot over 18 months back-to-back with a sequel due out next summer. Marvel spent years laying the groundwork for the big showdown, teasing its villain (Josh Brolin's Thanos) since 2014. The result earned positive reviews (84 percent fresh on Rotten Tomatoes) and an A CinemaScore from audiences. All but one of Marvel's 19 cinematic universe releases has scored an A CinemaScore.As if to further stamp its pronounced enormity, "Infinity War" was also the first film shot entirely with IMAX cameras. (Christopher Nolan's "Dunkirk" was mostly shot on IMAX.) IMAX screenings accounted for a record $41 million of the weekend's global ticket sales. Greg Foster, head of entertainment for IMAX Corp, said the success of Marvel stands apart from Hollywood's other mega franchises."This isn't something that their parents saw. This isn't an old franchise that their parents saw when they were 20," said Foster. "This is theirs. The Marvel universe is the group of characters that this generation owns."No new wide releases dared to compete with "Infinity War," which played at 4,474 theaters in North America. In a very distant second place was John Krasinski's "A Quiet Place" with $10.7 million in its fourth week. With $148.2 million in total ticket sales, the Paramount Pictures thriller had topped the box office three of the last four weekends.Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore, credited Marvel with the potent lead-up to "Infinity Wars" with "Spider-Man: Homecoming," ''Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2," ''Thor: Ragnarok" and "Black Panther" — all successful and well-reviewed entries.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."This brought the world together this weekend," said Dergarabedian. "That's what these movies do: They remind us why we love going to the movie theater. A movie like this shows the singular and unique experience of going into a movie theater."AdvertisementEstimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included. Final domestic figures will be released Monday.1. "Avengers: Infinity War," $250 million ($380 million international).2. "A Quiet Place," $10.7 million ($6.6 million international).3. "I Feel Pretty," $8.1 million ($1.4 million international).4. "Rampage," $7.1 million ($16.2 million international).5. "Black Panther," $4.4 million.6. "Super Troopers 2," $3.6 million.7. "Truth or Dare," $3.2 million ($2.8 million international).8. "Blockers," $2.9 million ($1.6 million international).9. "Ready Player One," $2.4 million ($8.6 million international).10. "Traffik," $1.6 million.___Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to comScore:1. "Avengers: Infinity War," $380 million.2. "Us and Them," $88.8 million.3. "Rampage," $16.2 million.4. "A or B," $15.2 million.5. "Ready Player One," $8.6 million.6. "A Quiet Place," $6.6 million.7. "Peter Rabbit," $5.3 million.8. "Taxi 5," $3.8 million.9. "Genghis Khan," $3.4 million.10. "The Trough," $2.9 million.___Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe Shed, the new cross-disciplinary arts center planned for the Far West Side of Manhattan, is still a hard-hat construction site, with an opening date of next spring. But starting on Tuesday, its creators will serve up two free weeks of arts events as an amuse-bouche, hoping to entice New Yorkers with an early look at the type of ambitious programming the Shed will eventually offer.AdvertisementAdvertisementIn the backdrop of the Shed’s impending burst onto a crowded cultural scene is the desire, or perhaps need, to attract the next generation of art connoisseurs. That means commissioning or reinterpreting art, not rehashing it. A recent open call for artists focused on young practitioners based in New York rather than Europe and made clear that it was open to “all art forms” — performing, visual, literary, comedy, fashion, design, science and new-media work. (It promised a fee of $7,000 to $15,000 to support the creation of new pieces.)As Mr. Poots spoke, Mr. Forsythe had just finished rehearsing and explained that in renovating one of his classic works — originally created for the Paris Opera Ballet, commissioned by its director Rudolf Nureyev — there was no “unwritten imperative that insists that it only appear in these contexts.” By giving it a contemporary spin — say, with Ms. Banks’s music — it’s a chance for ballet to reach fans of hip-hop.“They know this music; they’re experts,” Mr. Forsythe said. “They could sing it backward in the bathtub upside down, and they will then probably not have imagined that particular kind of choreography to this music.”AdvertisementThis goes both ways: Fans of classical ballet will be exposed to the work of up-and-comers like Abra.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Adjacent to the Hudson Yards development, The Shed has raised most of the money needed for the $455 million costs associated with the construction of the innovative building, a design collaboration between Diller Scofidio + Renfro and Rockwell Group. It still has another roughly $100 million left to raise to support program costs for its first three years.“There’ll be moments where we really encourage audiences to open their minds and extend their consciousness in a way and to really push hard,” Mr. Poots said. “They either will or they won’t. But I think the arts is about expanding your mind.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byYou’ll get no glee from me. The decline of the Oscars is overdetermined: It’s nobody’s fault and everybody’s, shaped by the same trends driving down Big Event ratings all over and the same diversification of tastes and values and ideas, plus all the technological and economic shifts undercutting the old studio business models, all the inevitably shortsighted choices made by philistines in SoCal corporate suites, and all of our collective decisions to watch or not to watch what Hollywood churns out.But it is still a decline to be regretted, a loss not only of entertainment and spectacle but also of the cultural common ground that our last mass-market art form once supplied.The key problem for the Oscars is not, as Hollywood’s critics on the right sometimes suggest, that the movie industry’s liberal politics are dragging down both box office numbers and Oscar ratings — that the desire to preach is swamping the desire to entertain. There is a political problem, but it is secondary: The key issue for the academy is that the Hollywood system no longer produces enough of the kind of movies that a mass-audience awards spectacle requires.The ideal Oscar nominee is a kind of high-middlebrow work, a mix of star power and strong writing and gripping storytelling that at its best achieves great artistry (as happened often in the 1970s, less often in other eras) but even if it falls short maintains a certain level of quality joined to broad, dare-one-say populist appeal. The classic Hollywood genres, from gangland movies to historical epics to literary adaptations to Westerns and war movies and musicals, were all calibrated for this zone, and when the calibration was successful, the Oscar nominators had a lot of material to work with that was at once popular and pretty-good.What has happened in the intervening years is well known to everyone. The combination of a global audience (which doesn’t necessarily relate to a lot of old-Hollywood genres and tropes), the ease of substituting special-effects work for storytelling, the ascent of geek culture and the lure of online life and the flight of talent and viewers to the ever-expanding realm of prestige TV have turned Hollywood into a comic-book blockbuster industry with an Oscar-bait subsidiary.Could the voters do a better job sifting through the reboot-remake mediocrity to find high-grossing jewels? Perhaps: A list of nominees for this year’s Oscars that included “Logan” and “Blade Runner: 2049” might have boosted the nominees’ popular appeal without sacrificing quality.One of the virtues (both civic and artistic) of the old mass-audience, high-middlebrow model was that it forced Hollywood to temper its own partisan inclinations because of the size of its intended audiences, to produce tacitly conservative Big Movies as well as liberal ones and reward them both at Oscar season. (That reliable right-wing favorite “Braveheart” won in the year I cited earlier, and the prior year’s undeserving but entertaining winner, “Forrest Gump,” wore a Reaganite conservatism on its simpleton hero’s sleeve.)This tempering still happens in the superhero factory (despite being marketed as event movies for the woke, films like “Wonder Woman” and “Black Panther” play it safe with their political messages), even if there the goal is sometimes appeasing Red China rather than Red America, and of course a certain kind of pulp entertainment will always tend to skew right-wing. But the more the only plausible Oscar nominees in terms of cinematic quality are passion projects and message movies — the kind of movies, to quote Kimmel, that are made “to annoy Mike Pence” — the more the film industry’s inevitable liberalism seems less one reliable theme of Oscar season than the symphony entire.For some people in the movie business and the press that covers it, this may seem like a happy evolution, a shift toward more of a vanguard role in pursuing social change, with fewer political compromises and greater moral clarity in what messages the academy offers to the world.Like many cultural rituals the Oscars are peculiar and arbitrary and frequently absurd, but like many they have supplied a thread of unity and memory and shared experience for the millions who watch them every year. For the show to become a boutique affair for American liberals that’s sponsored by a globalized superhero content provider is not, I think, a happy change — and for all that it seems overdetermined and inevitable, it’s a transformation that filmmakers and moviegoers and academy members, in all their various ways, should still make an effort to resist.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayUpdated, 10:23 a.m.Good morning on this bright Monday.After weeks of campaigning, millions spent and a few combative debates, New Yorkers will head to the polls tomorrow for a special election.Up for grabs are nine seats in the Assembly and two in the Senate — and with them, the opportunity for Democrats to control every branch of state government.Six of the 11 races are in and around New York City. Of those, Assembly contests will take place:And Senate contests will take place:For years, Democrats have held a majority in the Assembly and Senate, but their initiatives have been blocked by the Independent Democratic Conference, a group of eight Senate Democrats who voted with Republicans.“Now that the breakaway Democrats have agreed to return and it looks like smooth sailing, the one final hiccup would be if one of these two seats — in the Bronx or in Westchester — were to go Republican,” Ms. Foderaro said. “If so, the Democrats’ dream of retaking the Senate would collapse because they simply wouldn’t have the numbers.”The polls are open tomorrow from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.Here’s what else is happening:We’re getting early results from the contest above our heads.Today’s victor: a radiant blue sky.The organization’s goal, in honoring language and literature, is not only to celebrate the achievements of our culture and others, but also to raise awareness of how the written word has shaped our city and world.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS