AdvertisementNeither director wanted him, but then they took a look at him, and then he opened his mouth.Charlie Hunnam is not exactly a household name in the United States, at least not just yet.But all those parts did not make a breakout star of Mr. Hunnam, 37, not least because he has been enormously picky about roles. He once spent a few lean years living off an organic marijuana crop he cultivated in his Los Angeles home, he said, rather than taking jobs that left him cold.“I can’t even believe I’m being this candid,” Mr. Hunnam said as he revealed his pot-growing days — they’re behind him now, he swears — over a lunch of seared halibut and spring peas at the Four Seasons in Lower Manhattan a few weeks ago.Guy Ritchie narrates a sequence from "King Arthur: Legend of the Sword," featuring Charlie Hunnam and Jude Law.Tall and V-shaped, blond and chiseled, Mr. Hunnam has been likened to Brad Pitt and Channing Tatum. Yet he didn’t carry the “here we go again” ennui or whiff of wariness that often permeates the air around celebrities. This despite the fact that he was in the thick of the press tour for “King Arthur,” the $102 million film Mr. Ritchie directed and helped write, in theaters Friday, May 12, with Mr. Hunnam as its star.AdvertisementAdvertisementInfuriated, Mr. Hunnam flew to London from Los Angeles to force a meeting that Mr. Ritchie couldn’t say no to because Mr. Hunnam’s manager is his close friend. Looking back, Mr. Hunnam said he was not sure how much he wanted the role; he just wanted to be seen. Yet within five minutes, Mr. Ritchie said, “I knew I loved him.”A preview of the film.The director continued, “When someone’s hungry and pushy and they can back it up with something, then it’s a wonderful conspiracy.” Mr. Hunnam was smart, meticulous and dived deep. He also hit the gym like a madman and, soon enough, looked like He-Man.This in turn dismayed Mr. Gray, when, eight days after wrapping “King Arthur,” Mr. Hunnam showed up for a costume fitting for “Z.” The film is about Percy Fawcett, a real-life British explorer who disappeared in the Amazon in 1925 while searching for signs of an ancient civilization.Mr. Hunnam recalled that the “Z” director “looked in abject horror at my body and said, ‘This is a disaster, this is nowhere close to the physicality that we need for Fawcett.’” Mr. Hunnam added: “I just looked like a superhero, you know? Stupid.”AdvertisementMr. Pitt was to star but dropped out because of scheduling conflicts; then the lead was to be Benedict Cumberbatch, but his wife was about to give birth. Plan B suggested Mr. Hunnam, at which point Mr. Gray balked.“I thought he was a Hells Angels kind of guy, which makes me feel like an absolute fool beyond comprehension,” Mr. Gray said, in a phone chat.After learning Mr. Hunnam was British, Mr. Gray invited him over for dinner, making spaghetti and meatballs, which Mr. Hunnam dutifully ate even though, as Mr. Gray later learned, he avoids carbs.“He was so warm and funny. My wife thought he was handsomest man in the world, and my son was obsessed with him,” Mr. Gray said. “‘Lost City of Z’ is all about feelings of inadequacy about class. He understood all that stuff, and spoke to it directly.”A preview of the film.For Mr. Gray, that was key. Like his character in the film, Mr. Hunnam burned with the need to prove himself.Yet while his father had off-the-books wealth, he gave little money to Charlie, his brother or their mother, something Mr. Hunnam bears no animus about.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“In his immortal words,” Mr. Hunnam recalled, “he said to my mum, ‘Look, if I’m not going to be there to teach my sons to be men, then poverty will teach them to be men.’”Advertisement“It was obvious to me he was going to wait for interesting roles to come along, and you can be waiting for a long time,” said Mr. Gillen, who plays Littlefinger in “Game of Thrones” and who also stars in “King Arthur.” “He hasn’t made it particularly easy for himself.”Then “Sons of Anarchy” came along. Kurt Sutter, who created the series, said he saw a movie star in Mr. Hunnam, one who grasped outlaw culture (his father Billy’s doing) and who was also hypercritical of himself (Mr. Hunnam later said he’s hypercritical of everything). “It’s the kind of insane unobtainable need for perfection,” Mr. Sutter said. “His methodical ascension wasn’t an overnight pretty-boy success. It was mounting a body of work for the right reasons.”Mr. Hunnam has since added yet another feather to his cap; he starred, with Rami Malek, in the remake of “Papillon,” which wrapped production this past December.But he can’t, or won’t, breathe easy yet.“On set is the only time life fully makes sense, that I feel connected to the rhythm of my life and what it all means,” he said. Once that’s over, he added: “That thing that was filling me up is gone. And so in its wake is a giant hole that screams out every day ‘please fill me.’”He also knows his time at the summit might be fleeting.“The fear of ‘Is it going to happen?’ just immediately gets replaced with ‘Is it going to be temporary?’” he said.AdvertisementBy all indications, his boomlet has not gone to his head. One recent night in New York, Mr. Ritchie invited Mr. Hunnam to join a bunch of friends for a nice dinner. Mr. Hunnam replied thanks, but he was already eating dinner, by himself, in a sushi joint a few blocks away.Go to Home Page »