AdvertisementSupported byThe magazine had roughly 260,000 subscribers at the end of its 19-year print run in 2009, Mr. DeMoss said, making it one of Focus on the Family’s top-selling publications. The relaunched version is one of five magazines published by the group, which also draws almost 6.3 million listeners a week on over 1,000 American radio stations.Sorcha Brophy, a sociologist at the University of Pittsburgh who grew up reading Brio, said the magazine aims to “normalize being a Christian teen” by telling readers it can be cool to go to church and shun drugs and partying.But she said its emphasis on moral uprightness can also create a lot of pressure. As an example, Ms. Brophy pointed to a feature she encountered during her research: a pop culture quiz that deducted points from a reader’s score for correctly answered questions about mainstream music videos and celebrity gossip.“There’s no suggestion in the magazine that teenagers should completely remove themselves from pop culture and mainstream society, but at the same time there is an expectation of constant vigilance about how you engage with those things and about what you’re consuming and how you’re consuming it,” she said. “A lot of work is expected out of teenage readers.”Ms. Ridgely said the magazine has traditionally “modeled what Focus sees as the right kind of behavior” and avoided mentioning things of which it disapproves.It may be unlikely to mention abortion at all unless it profiled “a young woman with a young baby and everything is going swimmingly,” she said. “With homosexuality, for girls especially, lesbianism almost never comes up in any of their material. Girls aren’t depicted as people with a sex drive. Their whole job is to keep young boys’ sex drive under control.”Mr. DeMoss, a writer and longtime “youth culture specialist” who is vice president for content development at Focus on the Family, agreed that the new incarnation of Brio was unlikely to cover gay or transgender issues, even though they have become far more socially accepted since Brio’s first issue in 1990. For example, he said, Brio probably would not have joined other magazines in profiling the reality star Caitlyn Jenner when she came out as transgender last year.“If those topics ever come up in the pages of Brio they will be handled in a non-shaming, grace-filled, welcoming — and by welcoming I don’t mean ‘hey, we have no standards’ — way,” Mr. DeMoss said.And what are those standards? “We use the Bible as a standard,” he replied, before quickly changing the subject to topics like music reviews and human trafficking.When it was suggested that he was avoiding the topic, Mr. DeMoss laughed and said “we have more than one instrument in the band.”“We would rather communicate to the 95 percent or so who are not dialed into that as a regular kind of thing,” Mr. DeMoss said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS