AdvertisementObsolescence is the engine of style, and the sad fate of any fashionable garment is to die after each season, as the fashion historian Olivier Saillard once said. Yet there is at least one article of clothing that is seemingly inoculated against this inevitable death sentence. And that is overalls.The thought came to me not long ago as I wandered the aisles of the Tractor Supply Company in Warsaw, Va., population 1,512, passing the aisles of posthole diggers, egg incubators and udder balm. Not far from a carousel of straw Stetsons drifting suspended like windmill blades I came upon two racks of $69 Carhartt overalls that struck me as the most covetable things I had seen in some time.That I suddenly burned to possess those overalls had little to do with any yard work I had left unfinished. In a year in which I traveled to Tokyo, Florence, Milan and Paris — places where otherwise sensible people speak of things like “sprezzatura” — the most compelling stuff to be seen on the street or runway could have come off the racks of this farm and garden store.AdvertisementTractor Supply Company was on trend, I found myself thinking. And yet it is most likely the other way around.The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementThe statement is one of solidarity with the music’s originators, Mr. Jenkins said, as well as a subtle dig at the more studious followers of high fashion among the ranks of today’s major hip-hop stars. By choosing a work wear item as his onstage uniform, Chance the Rapper taps into realities remote from the runways of Paris and Milan.“It’s not about trying to count how many carats are in someone’s crucifix pendant,” Mr. Jenkins said.Humble and egalitarian, overalls, even custom-designed, are an emblem of working class pride, the director added.“It’s like when Run-D.M.C. came along and wore the stuff that everyday people wore in the ’hood,” Mr. Jenkins said. “The energy of that look had real connectivity to the community.”Go to Home Page »