AdvertisementDick Contino, whose energetic accordion playing and movie-star looks made him a teenage star in the late 1940s, but whose celebrity ebbed after he was imprisoned for evading induction into the draft, died on April 19 in Fresno, Calif. He was 87.His wife, Judy, confirmed his death.For a time, Mr. Contino was a show business rarity: a heartthrob accordionist who earned up to $4,000 a week in nightclubs.“Dick Contino is one of the few men in musical history who have ever squeezed big money out of an accordion,” Time magazine wrote in 1951.AdvertisementBut his onstage physicality belied his early shyness.“Playing the accordion was like he was talking to you,” his brother Victor said in an interview.Fronting his own revue, Mr. Contino sold out theaters in Milwaukee, Chicago and Pittsburgh. He was promoted as the “Rudolph Valentino of the accordion.” A movie about his meteoric career was being discussed. He wowed audiences at Ciro’s in West Hollywood.“He isn’t just sensational,” the gossip doyenne Hedda Hopper wrote, “he’s youth walking into your life.”But in 1951, as the Korean War headed into its second year, Mr. Contino, then only 21, was drafted into the Army and, after reporting to Fort Ord, near Monterey, Calif., bolted before his induction, overwhelmed by persistent neuroses including claustrophobia.AdvertisementHe said he could not stand being fenced in at Fort Ord. “I could never describe the anxiety attack I had,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1982. “I felt I had to leave.”He wandered San Francisco and entered a sanitarium before surrendering to the F.B.I. a few days later. He was indicted on a charge of refusing to submit to induction. After pleading guilty, he was fined $10,000 and served four and a half months in the federal penitentiary at McNeil Island, Wash.He entered the Army willingly in 1952 and spent much of his two years there entertaining troops in Korea. “These boys need entertainment,” he told United Press while in Seoul. “They all want to hear music. They want to forget they’re here, I guess.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But despite his subsequent honorable service, the draft-dodger label dogged him. The sponsor of a proposed new band pulled out because of the publicity. The comedian Joey Bishop once brought him on as a guest on his late-night talk show, was enthusiastic about helping his career, but never had him on again.“Why did people resent me so much for years?” Mr. Contino asked in the interview with The Los Angeles Times. “Why would certain shows pencil me in but never use me?”Richard Joseph Contino was born on Jan. 17, 1930, in Fresno, where his parents, Pietro, a butcher, and the former Mary Giordano, ran a delicatessen. As a youngster, Mr. Contino played the piano but took up the accordion, with his father’s encouragement. He had his own radio show in Fresno, on which his brother Victor turned the pages of the music for him.When Mr. Contino played a “jive rendition” of “Lady of Spain” during the first of his 13 consecutive victories in Mr. Heidt’s talent contest, Parade Magazine reported that the “bobby-sox audience howled, stamped and clapped its hands.” He won the finals of the contest a few months after graduating from high school. He left Fresno State College to focus on his music career.AdvertisementThat film fascinated James Ellroy, the crime writer best known for “L.A. Confidential.” A photograph taken of a young Mr. Ellroy shortly after being told that his mother had been murdered in 1958 eventually reignited his memories of the late 1950s, including Mr. Contino (“a man gyrating with an accordion — pumping his ‘Stomach Steinway’ for all its worth”) and “Daddy-O.”After finding and talking to Mr. Contino, Mr. Ellroy wrote a novella, “Dick Contino’s Blues” (1994), set in 1958 when “Daddy-O” was being filmed, that involves Mr. Contino’s faking his own kidnapping to resurrect his career. The Contino character in the novella conjures the excitement of performing in the flush of early stardom.“I pelvis-popped and pounded pianissimos; I cascaded cadenzas and humped harmonic hurricanes until the hogs hollered for hell — straight through to Horace Heidt’s grand finals,” Mr. Ellroy wrote. “I played BIG ROOMS. I cut records. I broke hearts. Screen tests, fan clubs, magazine spreads. Critics marveled at how I hipsterized the accordion — I said all I did was make schmaltz look sexy.”In addition to his wife, the former Judy Miller, and his brother Victor, Mr. Contino is survived by his son, Peter, who plays the accordion and drums; his daughters, Deidre Contino, a singer, and Merri Scaife; his stepchildren, Cathie and Robert Snowden; another brother, Peter; and two grandchildren. His first wife, Leigh Snowden, an actress, died in 1982.“You had to see him,” Victor Contino said. “On his records, he was O.K. But in person, he’d play for an hour. He’d play hard and never sat down. And at the end, he’d say, ‘I wish I could come to your home and play.’”Go to Home Page »