AdvertisementSupported by“Feud,” with blunt writing but exquisite performances, recreates that dish, critiques it and eats it with relish.Not ready to be set adrift, Crawford finds herself the script for “Baby Jane.” She enlists her longtime rival Davis (Susan Sarandon), a committed but difficult artist now doing theater. And she signs up Robert Aldrich (Alfred Molina), a sad-sack journeyman director with higher ambitions.“Baby Jane” — which, spoiler alert, became a hit — was a horror-thriller about a deadly struggle between two faded-actress sisters. The violence in “Feud” is (mostly) psychological. But as Crawford sees Davis stealing the picture in the showy role of a deranged ex-child-star, the stakes become just as high. Both actresses view the film as a lifeboat with only one seat.They’re not wrong. They’re fighting in a pit that others have constructed. The gossip rags thrive on infighting. “There’s only room for one goddess at a time,” says the columnist Hedda Hopper (Judy Davis, in a feather-brimmed hat that makes her look like a rapacious egret). The world sees them as old bitches who — as Davis’s daughter, B. D. (Kiernan Shipka), puts it — refuse to give up their “turn.”As the dailies come in from shooting, the studio head Jack Warner (Stanley Tucci, crisply boorish) decides their competition is cinematic gold (“Pure. Naked. Rancor. I love it.”) and orders Aldrich to “keep them at each other’s throats.”Crawford can be manipulative and sanctimonious (shades of the woman depicted in the memoir “Mommie Dearest” by her daughter Christina). Davis can be savage and brusque. But “Feud” loves them when they’re good, and loves them more when they’re bad.The strength of “Feud” is how it shows you the dynamic that turns two ambitious artists into gossip-sheet caricatures. Its weakness is how it tells you, and tells and tells.The series’s most superfluous device is a flash-forward to 1978; the actresses Joan Blondell (Kathy Bates) and Olivia de Havilland (Catherine Zeta-Jones) are being interviewed by a documentary crew, offering pithy comments that sum up what we’ve already seen.These scenes are, however, a rich layer cake of nostalgia — the ’40s, ’50s and ’60s recalled from the overripe ’70s — in a series that has period detail to burn.At times “Feud” revels in the same kind of catfight narrative it sends up. When Crawford learns that Davis has received an Oscar nomination for “Baby Jane,” there’s a dramatic pullback shot from the outside of her mansion and a horror-movie scream.The tone is sometimes camp, sometimes empathetic. Often it’s both, which is a defining mode of Mr. Murphy’s work: campathy.But “Feud” ultimately succeeds because it respects the fierceness of its characters and the power of its actresses.Ms. Lange, who has worked with Mr. Murphy regularly on “American Horror Story,” makes Crawford an aggrieved queen with weapons-grade eyebrows. Ms. Sarandon has the time of her life with the brassy Davis. Asked by a reporter about Crawford’s Oscar snub, she replies, “Define ‘snub,’” an acid-sweet lemon drop of a line.“Feud” is big and broad, but it has a nuanced sense of how its characters internalize the values that work against them. When an aspiring female director (Alison Wright) pitches Crawford a starring role after “Baby Jane,” Crawford nixes it: “Oh, Christ. A woman director? It really is over.”The scene doesn’t blame the victim so much as it acknowledges Crawford’s small part in the system she’s a victim of. To waste a woman’s talent — then and now — is a crime. Like so many great cinematic crimes, “Feud” says, this one is partly an inside job.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS