Some language questions arise repeatedly in emails from readers and in comments on After Deadline. Here, in a updated version of a post originally published in 2010, I outline The Times’s approach to some of these usage and style issues.•••‘None’: Singular or Plural?Should “none” be used with a singular or a plural verb?Some readers insist that “none” must always take a singular verb. They argue that “none” means “not one,” and so is inherently singular.But most authorities, including The Times’s stylebook, disagree. Here’s our entry:Editors have long been divided on this point. But “like” is widely used, and recognized in all dictionaries, in the sense of “as for example.” The Times’s stylebook accepts either phrase:The aversion to splitting infinitives is strongly held in some quarters, but weakly supported. Here’s what The Times’s stylebook says:Another pet peeve of some commenters is the use of “but” or “and” to begin a sentence. I don’t see any basis for their objections.It shouldn’t be overdone, but using coordinating conjunctions this way can provide a handy and very efficient transition. “But” is certainly preferable in many cases to the stilted “however,” and “and” is simpler than “in addition” or similar phrases.Miss Thistlebottom had a stronger case on this point. In careful writing, we continue to use “they” as a plural pronoun that should have a plural antecedent.Often writers resort to “they” after a singular noun to avoid using a gender-specific pronoun in a general case. Here’s an example I cited from a previous After Deadline post:In many cases, the problem can easily be avoided by starting with a plural noun: “When customers enter search terms …”Some transgender people who do not identify as either male or female have begun to make a case for “they” as a singular, gender-neutral pronoun referring to a specific individual. But that usage remains unfamiliar to many readers and may cause confusion, at least until it is widely recognized.Yes.The Times’s stylebook allows “data” with either a plural or a singular verb. Here’s the entry:Some readers object to this as overly permissive, or would at least like us to make up our minds. But Latin plurals like this do sometimes make a gradual transition in English to being used as a collective singular. “Media” is another example of a word that can be construed as either plural or singular. Our updated stylebook entry says this:Style guides for book and academic publishing generally would insist on another comma after “pears,” the so-called serial comma or Oxford comma. But news writing has traditionally omitted the serial comma — perhaps seeking a more rapid feeling in the prose, or perhaps to save time and effort in the old days of manual typesetting.Auto racing fans chafe at our rules on acronyms. Here they are, from our stylebook:We limit the uppercasing to four letters because longer strings of capitals are distracting and tend to jump off the page.Our continued use of courtesy titles — increasingly rare in the news media — prompts many questions. Rules on the use of “Dr.” in particular can lead to confusion, for readers and unfortunately sometimes for our writers. Here’s our stylebook entry:Anyone else with an earned doctorate, like a Ph.D. degree, may request the title, but only if it is germane to the holder’s primary current occupation (academic, for example, or laboratory research).  Reporters should confirm the degree holder’s preference. For a Ph.D., the title should appear only in second and later references.Do not use the title for someone whose doctorate is honorary.I read the comments that are posted each week, which frequently give me ideas or fodder for future installments. You can also send emails to nytnews@nytimes.com; please put “After Deadline” in the subject line so the message will be forwarded to me.In a new preface, I describe The Times’s overall approach to usage questions:We do not seek to be in the vanguard by adopting the newest usage or the latest buzzwords. But we must also guard against a reflexive traditionalism that would make The Times seem fusty or out of touch. Language changes, and we should carefully and judiciously reckon with those changes. Above all, the guidelines in this book should be applied thoughtfully, with room for wise exceptions. An earlier version of the manual put it this way: “The rules should encourage thinking, not discourage it. A single rule might suffice: ‘The rule of common sense will prevail at all times.’ ”Some readers complain that the After Deadline logo looks too much like the clock we publish to remind people of the time change.We actually use a different logo for the in-house version — a thick red pencil line circling the title, like an editor’s mark. But the designers thought it was a bit too old-fashioned for the online edition. In any case, if it’s not March or November, assume that the clock means After Deadline.This week’s grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.•••We normally capitalize “the” in the names of newspapers. But we should lowercase it when the name is used as a modifier, because “the” in that case goes with “editor”: “the Washington Post editor Ben Bradlee.”•••As we have often noted, the verb in a relative clause like this should be plural, or we should recast the construction.•••“Between” doesn’t work with the singular “bosom.”•••No need for a hyphen between “well” and a past participle like “positioned” when the expression follows the verb.•••From the stylebook:•••The twang was named Stéphane? Watch where you put that phrase.•••Certainly we shouldn’t treat “faculty” as singular in the first clause and plural in the second. Better to say “faculty members were tenured.”•••We could just say “this year.” Obviously it wasn’t later this year. Better still, how about giving the month?•••It appears that the article “a” was dropped (and there should also be a comma after “beautiful”). But if he spoke nonstandard English and omitted the article himself, it would be better to paraphrase or use a partial quote.•••We should resist journalese formulations like “then-Gov.” Make it something like “Sonny Perdue, then the governor …”•••Again! Make it “very few foreign journalists who have …”•••It’s in the stylebook: Hanukkah.•••Another unwanted hyphen.•••This phrasing doesn’t track; for one thing, “each” doesn’t work with the second part of the predicate. Perhaps just say “the brothers acted separately and did not commit crimes together.”•••This odd phrasing seems to mean the opposite of what we intended.•••The contraction of “could have” is “could’ve.”After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times’s style manual.Advertisement