AdvertisementSupported byPlaylistAt the Thanksgiving Day Lions-Vikings football game, Aretha Franklin took the national anthem to church and kept it there for four lavishly unhurried minutes. The instrumental lineup — Ms. Franklin on piano backed by an organist — should have been a tipoff that deep gospel was in store. This wasn’t a song to get out of the way before the game could start. This would be an anthem treated like a classic spiritual, taking the time to contemplate every word and every phrase with deep concentration and improvisational abandon. Ms. Franklin made the song a patient, circuitous, ultimately spectacular ascent, from a husky, inward-looking start to an airborne finale, through husky assurances and bluesy sufferings, through grainy determination and powerful purity. The last line of the verse is a question — “Does that star-spangled banner yet wave?” — but Ms. Franklin turned it into a flat-out affirmation: “It is the land of the free, the free!” she sang, “We are the home of the brave!” J.P.Of Garth Brooks’s many modes, perhaps his most convincing — in this, the late middle of his career — is dad mode. There’s something in the way he declaims: it connotes certainty, sympathy and resignation. This approach is at its most intense on “Ask Me How I Know,” from his strong new album, “Gunslinger,” which in the hands of a lesser singer would be a scold, but is instead a reassuring arm around the shoulder: “And when you start to fall, you hung on to your pride/Start building up your walls and never let her get inside/You’ll push her away, ‘cause that’s all you know how to do.”“I’m messing up all of Drake’s words/on purpose,” Chance the Rapper sings midway through this cover of Drake’s “Feel No Ways,” a song about feeling the sharp lash of recrimination from someone you once loved. Chance’s version is both brighter and more insular; his band backs him with spare, cushioning synthesizers. When he sings “I had to let go of us, to show myself what I can do,” the exultation, matched by bright synth dollops, is a shift from Drake’s resentment. Chance also changes a few words and adds a few lines that feel, perhaps, aimed at a specific person who’s done him wrong: “We need to breathe/There’s more to life than hearing stuff and being mean to me/We had to let go of us to show ourselves what we could be.” J.C.The experimental alto saxophonist and composer Matana Roberts didn’t release an album this year, but that doesn’t mean she wasn’t busy — touring at home and abroad, organizing residencies, forging new collaborations. Last month she settled in for a few days at Café Oto in London, working with English partners including the pianist Alexander Hawkins, the trumpeter Byron Wallen and the electronics artist Leafcutter John. The results sparked with exploratory frictions, as you can hear on the sanctioned bootlegs that Ms. Roberts recently posted online: three roughly 40-minute improvisations, all well worth hearing (though maybe not back-to-back). N.C.Tease, come-on and afterglow merge in “Maniac,” which finds a percussive path to sensual bliss: “You just made love to a maniac,” Ms. Aiko reminds a partner. Like a long-evolved descendant of Prince’s “Erotic City” by way of Janet Jackson and f.k.a. twigs, the production is all plinks, ratchets, whooshes and twitches; virtually every bit of harmony comes from Ms. Aiko’s many vocals. She raps crisply through verses that hop in and out of double time as they juxtapose desire and demands: “Anywhere, everywhere, you turn me to addict/If you love me like you say you do then get it tatted.” And then she glides into choruses that hover and coo, offering the promise of sweet, proud insatiability. J.P.What sort of suave is Aloe Blacc? On his new single, “Real Slow,” he ventures the most conflicted sort of come-on, proposing intimacy as a shield against worldly troubles. “Do you feel like there’s a place for you and me in the home of the brave and the land of the free?” he asks, in a rat-a-tat stream. (The track’s terse hip-hop background is the work of DJ Khalil, who also produced most of Aloe Blacc’s 2013 album, “Lift Your Spirit.”) The silky assurance of the singing helps sell the feeling of a confiding, almost clandestine seduction. “We can dance with our eyes closed,” the suitor suggests, before spinning out the hypothetical:N.C.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS