B. 1962Miss Cleo was the star of a hotline company called the Psychic Readers Network, which people called for relationship advice, lottery numbers or answers to questions about their future. She quickly found loyal fans. She came to prominence in the late 1990s, a time marked by high camp and an abundance of deliciously trashy daytime talk-show hosts like Ricki Lake and Maury Povich. Everyone on TV back then was low on ethics and high on entertainment. Her infomercials were a cross between a theater production and a scripted reality show, a telethon for people suffering from heartbreak and in desperate need of wisdom. People phoned in for Miss Cleo’s special brand of real talk. She lectured people about new loves (“The ex is much better than the present one, you know?”) and cautioned against overtly pessimistic outlooks (“Don’t make me take you to church, young man”). She once untangled a paternity crisis by describing the shape of the baby’s chin. In the now-unimaginable era before on-demand everything, she was often the only thing worth watching after midnight.Born in Los Angeles, Youree Dell Harris loved being in character. Before her career as a television psychic, according to The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Harris produced and starred in several plays in the city. Several former castmates described her as brilliant and talented, but also deceptive: Harris, they said, once skipped town after producing a show without properly paying her cast and crew. In 1997, she met Steven Feder and Peter Stolz, the Fort Lauderdale cousins behind the phone psychic company, and agreed to represent their business as Miss Cleo, a mystic shaman born in Jamaica. In 2002, the Federal Trade Commission filed a lawsuit against the Psychic Readers Network, for engaging in “unfair and deceptive trade practices.” The company was forced to forgive $500 million in outstanding customer debts and pay a $5 million fine. Not long after, Harris parted ways from Feder and Stolz. The disintegration of their partnership also dissolved Miss Cleo. The Psychic Readers Network created the Cleo character, and they controlled how she could use it.She released a CD of spoken-word poems, “Convicted for My Beliefs.”Not that Harris wanted to keep up the ruse. People saw her as a thief and a con artist. She later admitted she never expected people to take the commercials seriously. “If the truth was there, in black and white,” she said, wiping away tears in a 2014 documentary called “Hotline,” “surely people would have sense. But that’s not the way it goes.” Although she confessed that she wasn’t a psychic, she insisted she had studied under a female high priestess in Voodoo for 30 years. But by the time of the documentary, she was already well into the new phase of her identity. In 2006, she came out as a lesbian in an interview with The Advocate. She was raising two daughters from previous relationships and officiating at weddings and performing cleansings on houses. She wrote a spiritual guidebook, and she even had a podcast.The media business dynamics that made Miss Cleo a household name no longer exist. Miss Cleo has no heirs, just pixelated relics on YouTube. Her closest kin is a B-celeb-sponsored post on Instagram, but flat-tummy tea doesn’t have the same charm. Miss Cleo may have started off as a joke, but her character grew into a legend. She voiced a character in “Grand Theft Auto: Vice City” and was referenced in skits by Dave Chappelle and on Mad TV. She was briefly a spokeswoman for Benefit Cosmetics. She predated the Kardashians in understanding the importance of a personal brand, and the power of a platform.Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine.B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 1924B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1950B. 1974B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1965B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1947B. 1952B. 1929Advertisement