AdvertisementSupported byFixesThe election of Donald J. Trump has highlighted religious tensions in America, particularly with Trump’s proposals to bar Muslims from entering the country and to create a registry of Muslims living in the United States. But these tensions did not begin with Trump. In America, virtually every form of faith or belief has at some point suffered unfavorable reception by others; the victims include Roman Catholics, Mormons, evangelical Christians, Jews and atheists, alongside Muslims.Democracy is not just a place where you elect representatives; it’s a society where you can make personal convictions public. And diversity isn’t just the things we like. It isn’t just samosas and egg rolls. Diversity is also the things you don’t like. We have to recognize that expressions of some identities will injure others.The typical metaphor for this is bridges. But bridges don’t fall from the sky or rise from the ground. The ability to disagree with people on some fundamental things and work with them on others isn’t natural for the human psyche or civil society. Leaders have to create that, and we have to be strategic about creating those leaders.In my book, I tell a story about Ruth Messinger, who ran the American Jewish World Service and was Manhattan borough president. In the 1960s, Ruth was assigned to build a foster care network in western Oklahoma. While taking her baby for walks she saw signs on houses saying ‘Church of Jesus Christ.’ So she knocked on the doors, introducing herself, and got invited to attend evangelical church services.Some of the things said during the services were insulting to her. Sometimes a sermon mentioned Jews as Christ killers. Many of the people didn’t think women should be working outside the home, and they were pro the Vietnam War, which Ruth strongly opposed. But Ruth talked about the kids who needed help and, afterward, when the pastor stood up and asked: ‘Who will partner with Ruth Messinger to help these kids in need?’ half the church would stand up and sign their names. And Ruth said that if she had let what they said about feminism and the Vietnam War prevent her from forming that partnership, hundreds of kids in western Oklahoma would not have had caring foster homes.That’s an example of somebody who had the ability to disagree on some ultimate concerns and work on others. Because of the relationships and trust she built she was later able to have civil conversations about other disagreements, including their views of Jews.When groups have deep differences — say, Reform Jews and evangelical Christians on the question of abortion — people say if you don’t address the conflict you are ignoring the elephant in the room. My response is: If all you do is pay attention to the elephant in the room, you miss the other animals in the zoo. There are other things that Reform Jews and evangelicals can engage on together that are fundamental and inspiring; working against sexual trafficking is an excellent example.An interfaith leader brackets disagreements temporarily. By ‘bracket’ I don’t mean you never return to disagreements, I just mean don’t get hung up on them. Don’t let them prevent you from doing other fundamental things.For me, if you support a Muslim registry because your knowledge of Muslims comes from the first minute of the evening news and your Facebook news feed, and there is a significant possibility that different conversations and information about Muslims would shift that idea, I would absolutely engage constructively with you. And I think this describes many Americans.What I’m very wary of is what I would call an educated bigotry that seeks to manipulate.In 1959 and 1960, vast swaths of America feared that the election of J.F.K. would mean that the flag of the Vatican would fly in Washington, D.C., and the Pope would descend on the White House. Arthur Schlesinger, the historian, famously said that the deepest bias in the American people is anti-Catholicism.Last year, I was one of thousands of people holding a Vatican Flag on the south lawn of the White House as Pope Francis appeared with President Obama. It’s a stunning shift in history. And people have almost no memory of the anti-Catholic bigotry from two generations ago. A lot of Catholics don’t even remember it.Why? As the social science tells us, when people of different identities mix positively with one another, they come to like each other, and that is the great genius of American civil society. Interfaith leaders pay attention to the prejudices that have disappeared in the past and recognize that those same dynamics can be put into place again.Or identify unlikely and powerful partnerships in history. A classic civil rights example would be Abraham Joshua Heschel and Martin Luther King Jr. It seems straightforward now, but 50 years ago it was uncommon for an Orthodox Jew to march alongside a black Baptist.Another one: Abdul Ghaffar Khan and Gandhi in the Hind Swaraj (Indian Home Rule) movement. At a time of great Muslim-Hindu tension in India, this Muslim from Afghanistan marched and worked with Gandhi for the freedom of the subcontinent.By the way, that’s everything that was said about Catholics.My wife and I are adamant that we are not going to blame all Trump supporters for what some extremists are doing. Our kids met some neighbors, other 9-year-olds, who casually said they’re Trump supporters. We told our kids: You’re still going to be friends with them. We didn’t support Trump for president, but it’s good that you know people who did. And you should still play football and baseball with them — the 9-year-old version of fundamental concerns.We talk a lot about being proud of being Muslim and being Indian and of the contributions of our communities to America. It was a Muslim from Bengal, Fazlur Rahman Khan, who created the architectural form of skyscrapers.We buy Muhammad Ali books. We talk about Mahatma Gandhi as the chief inspiration for Martin Luther King Jr. We are building pride in their identities, and they are generally surrounded by people who are affirming of that.I don’t know how I’d feel if I lived 90 minutes outside Chicago. Where we live in the city, the Trump world is a minority. But the last thing I want to do is retreat more deeply into my urban liberal bubble.What are ways in which I can understand who my fellow citizens who voted differently are? What qualities do they possess that I would admire? And what are fundamental things that we can work on together?That’s work on me to do.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS