B. 1965Carl Walker-Hoover of Springfield, Mass., was such a boy. At 10, he was a giggly child, a clumsy but enthusiastic football player, a devoted member of his family’s church. But at 11, in 2009, he was someone his mother, Sirdeaner Walker, worried over. His shoulders were hunched. He was quick to rage. The way persistent mothers do, Walker drew him out. Kids were calling him “faggot,” he told her. “You act like you’re kind of feminine,” one girl told him, an accusation masked as an observation.If Carl felt powerless, Walker — who had a law degree and worked with the homeless at a nonprofit — did not, at least not at first. She called the school, met with administrators. But Carl came home one day in April that year and told his mother that he was facing suspension for fighting with a girl after he accidentally caused something to bump into her. He said the girl had threatened to kill him. The guidance counselor wanted them, as a form of mediation, to have lunch together every day for a week. Walker, frustrated, wondered: What kind of dumb idea was that?Carl headed to his room. Walker decided she would see the principal and take Carl with her. She went upstairs to tell Carl her plan. She found her son lifeless, hanging from an extension cord he had tied to the banister.A year later, the television host Dr. Phil, on an episode about bullying, asked Walker what she was thinking when she realized her son was gone. “I failed as a parent,” she told him. “I failed to protect my child.” As the camera panned out at the segment’s end, she bowed her head, as if in prayer, or defeat.In 1983, Sirdeaner Walker received a scholarship to attend Boston College, where she was one of the first black majorettes in the school’s marching band.Almost as soon as she could form thoughts after her son’s death, Walker spoke to the news media and then to her Legislature, which eventually passed the state’s first anti-bullying law, her testimony crucial in the process. The consummate advocate, she stepped forward so others could bear witness to her pain, while reining in her emotions to leave room for lucid argument. The audience did not see the woman who had stopped eating and who woke her family, night after night, with screams as she lay in the grip of a deep, recurring dream in which she relived her son’s death.That her son did not identify as gay, that she was a Christian, made her a particularly compelling activist against anti-gay bullying in 2009, before most Americans supported same-sex marriage, before celebrities started reassuring young gay people, in a popular video series, that “It Gets Better.” Now, amid a rise in bias attacks, the anti-bullying laws and policies that Walker and others fought to put in place stand as bulwarks — benchmarks, however imperfect, for the ideals of tolerance and caring.Even after she fell ill with breast cancer, Walker actively served on the board of Glsen, a nonprofit organization devoted to making school safe for L.G.B.T.Q. students. Soon after Carl’s death, she spoke at one of its fund-raisers. When she finished, two dozen or so attendees waited patiently in line to take her hand. They wanted to thank her and share their own tortured schoolyard pasts. “You know, I have never met so many rich, white gay people in my life,” Walker told Eliza Byard, the executive director of Glsen. “And every single one of them, when I look in their eyes, I see my Carl.”Susan Dominus is a staff writer for the magazine.B. 1938B. 1930There is a photograph of the astronaut Edgar Mitchell emerging from the Apollo 14 capsule, a ragged cone of scorched metal and shredded foil bobbing in the South Pacific 880 miles off the coast of American Samoa. A wetsuit-clad Navy swimmer is helping him out of the access hatch and into an inflatable raft. Mitchell, dressed in an olive-drab flight suit and a biological mask, steadies himself with his left hand on the door frame. He is 40, with the receding hairline and blandly gentle affect of a family dentist. It is Feb. 9, 1971, and he has just had an epiphany.B. 1962B. 1947... and it is a collaboration that makes me additionally thankful for this splendid enigma: What did you and Eno chat about in between takes? Your favorite Hammer films? Is a hot dog a sandwich, yes or no?B. 1924B. 20??B. 1906B. 1944 & 1953B. 1950B. 1974B. 1917B. 1936Photo EssayReno’s mother began building the family home, near the Florida Everglades, in 1949, long before Miami’s suburban sprawl crept into the area. Reno moved here at age 14, and — apart from stints in Tallahassee and as U.S. Attorney General — lived here for the rest of her life. The bed and other antiques once belonged to her maternal grandparents. ‘‘I don’t know how old they are,’’ says her sister, Maggy Hurchalla, ‘‘but I’ve known them for as long as I remember, and I just turned 76.’’Across the length of 2016, the photographer Mitch Epstein — known for making careful large-format images that draw rich meaning out of places and objects — arranged to visit the living and working spaces of some of the monumental figures we lost this year. The goal was to arrive not long after each person’s death, in those days when a person’s spirit can still seem palpable somewhere among their rooms and their things — as in his photograph of the writer Jim Harrison’s studio, where the items on a bedside table seem as if they were set down only moments ago.B. 1925B. 1924B. 1958B. 1947B. 1945B. 1954B. 1926B. 1942B. 1955B. 1928 & 1940B. 1926B. 1947B. 1952B. 1929An article on Dec. 25 about Sirdeaner Walker, an anti-bullying activist, transposed her son’s surname. He was Carl Walker-Hoover, not Hoover-Walker.Advertisement