Welcome to a parallel universe. It is a world of tired news language where the verb “stir” is bound to be followed by “debate,” where those debates are always “heated” or “bitter.” In this world, anything newsworthy is automatically “controversial,” and a “hike” involves taxes, not a trail up a mountain. It is often a “hardscrabble” place, sometimes “densely wooded,” sometimes graced with “manicured” lawns and “leafy” streets. “Landmark” agreements are “hammered out” there, while adversaries are “lambasted” and “assailed.”Meet journalese: a strained and artificial voice more common to news reports than to natural conversation. (Indeed, this “meet” device is a prime example of journalese, as is the “welcome to” construction in the previous paragraph.)Our careful writers and diligent copy editors try to protect readers from the trite and banal. And many of the worst examples are automatically flagged by our customized spelling checker. But even the best writers can lapse into this language on deadline, in part because we read and hear so much of it elsewhere.Take note the next time you encounter a piece of Times writing that sounds especially fine — you are unlikely to encounter any journalese. The tone is natural and unforced, but fresh and intelligent.As these recent examples show, we don’t always succeed.•••The “11th-hour” deal is a classic, and often meaningless, formulation. Most deals are struck near the end of negotiations. That’s how negotiations work.•••“Slaying,” a common synonym for killing or murder in newspapers and on the 11 o’clock local news, is rarely encountered in normal conversation. We should strive to sound more like educated Times readers and less like the 11 o’clock news.•••We should avoid this trite use of “boost.”•••This phrase, overworked by news commentators everywhere, dates to the early Cold War years, describing global public relations efforts by the Soviet Union. It should be buried in the ash heap.•••Here’s another word rarely encountered in real life. It means deliberate destruction or violence, and in its original legal meaning carries a whiff of mutilation and maiming. Through overuse in news articles, it has been so drained of meaning that it can now be used to refer to noise in a classroom.•••Even TV newscasters don’t try to say this one with a straight face. It refers more to a noisy hubbub or uproar, not merely a controversy.•••This companion to “brouhaha,” meaning a confusing situation or misunderstanding, is also overused in our writing and best avoided.•••Brouhahas, imbroglios and now a donnybrook. This example of journalese feels ridiculous even when describing an actual brawl.•••This one’s in The Times’s stylebook, as are many others:Speaking of the stylebook, a revised and updated version of our newsroom manual has just gone on sale as an e-book, from Three Rivers Press, a division of Penguin Random House. This version includes all the changes and updating done since the last major edition was published in 1999.In a new preface, I describe The Times’s overall approach to usage questions:We do not seek to be in the vanguard by adopting the newest usage or the latest buzzwords. But we must also guard against a reflexive traditionalism that would make The Times seem fusty or out of touch. Language changes, and we should carefully and judiciously reckon with those changes. Above all, the guidelines in this book should be applied thoughtfully, with room for wise exceptions. An earlier version of the manual put it this way: “The rules should encourage thinking, not discourage it. A single rule might suffice: ‘The rule of common sense will prevail at all times.’ ”This week’s grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.•••“In common” is redundant after “share.” Drop that phrase, or make it “have some things in common.”•••For the subject of the verb phrase “had shouted,” we wanted the subjective case: “whoever.” (The entire clause, not just the relative pronoun, is the object of “to punish.”)•••Three problems: “Both” works as the subject of “have croissant bases” but not as the subject of “are shaped differently”; make it “but they are shaped differently.” Also, the period should be inside the parenthesis. And the stylebook advises against the colloquial use of “plus” as a substitute for “and.”•••“As if,” not “like,” to introduce a subordinate clause.•••Make it “female rector” (we wouldn’t say “man rector”). Or rephrase, e.g. “was the first woman to become rector.”••••••Why switch from fractions (“one-third the calories”) to percentages (“75 percent less sugar”) and then to multiples (“twice the protein”)? Make it a bit easier on the reader by changing the sugar phrase to “one-quarter the sugar.”•••A dangler. This seems to compare Rikers Island not to “the toughest state prisons” but to “what occurs” in those prisons.•••The stylebook lays out the correct way to present a quote that begins with a fragment. Here, place quotation marks after “let him go,” insert attribution, and begin a new paragraph with “He might get …”•••Our style calls for capitalizing the first word after the colon if it begins an independent clause.•••The unnecessary “not” inverts our meaning.•••We stumble surprisingly often over comparison phrases like this. “As much” should be followed by “as”: “as much deuterium … as is found in water on Earth.”•••Our style rule no longer calls for an apostrophe in plural abbreviations like this. Make it “C.E.O.s.”•••There doesn’t seem to be a singular antecedent for “its” anywhere. Rephrase.•••Why the hyphen?•••Time elements should not split up verbs and their direct objects. Because “released” has a long direct object, place the time element before the verb: “The Malaysian government on Sunday released the most comprehensive report to date …”•••Those who graduate from high school are awarded diplomas, not degrees.•••Unless he miraculously became a building, divide “into” in two. “In” is an adverb that goes with “turned,” while “to” is the preposition with “the sheriff’s office.”•••The past tense is “led,” of course.•••Ouch. “Too far.”•••The “they” device worked, until it didn’t, when the word suddenly referred to the hard-line lawmakers, not to John Kerry and Javad Zarif.After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times’s style manual.Advertisement