AdvertisementSupported byThe preparations — described by top aides as businesslike — are part of a deliberate White House strategy to ignore the fact that Republicans have refused to even consider his nomination. Mr. Obama’s aides and Judge Garland’s allies have concluded that acting as if the Supreme Court nomination is going ahead is the best way to maximize pressure on their adversaries.That means maintaining a brisk schedule of one-on-one courtesy meetings with senators for the next month, a period that White House officials consider “phase one.” This week, Judge Garland will meet privately with two Republican senators, and on Thursday, Mr. Obama will travel to the University of Chicago, where he taught constitutional law, to press for more Republicans to meet with his nominee.Also this week, liberal groups are flying in about 40 constituents of Republican senators from Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Wisconsin to lobby their lawmakers and hold a news conference on Capitol Hill. The Republican constituents include two former staff members of Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who would oversee confirmation hearings if they ever took place.White House officials say they remain optimistic. Despite initial reports that Republican senators were united in their opposition to even talking to Judge Garland, 16 Republican senators have said they are willing to at least meet with him in person. Mr. Obama’s advisers and his allies on Capitol Hill view that as an early victory.They also point to polling that suggests that the majority of the population believes that Republicans should treat Mr. Obama’s nominee as the way they have previous court picks — with a hearing and a vote.The judge’s courtesy calls this month will be followed by “phase two,” when he will fill out a version of the extensive legal questionnaire that has become routine in Supreme Court confirmations. The White House plans to submit the questionnaire to the Judiciary Committee even if Mr. Grassley and the committee’s Republicans do not ask for one.Mr. Obama will spend the late spring and summer daring Republicans in speeches, interviews and other public events to block a hearing, aides said. If Republicans relent and hold a hearing, “phase three” will be an all-out public relations campaign aimed at demanding a final, up-or-down vote on Judge Garland.“The ones who are not meeting with him are going to be a smaller and smaller number,” said Neil Eggleston, the White House counsel, who has been gaming out the moves and countermoves. “I think it’s going to be harder and harder for them not to accord the basic fairness, first of a meeting and second of a hearing.”In part, that assessment relies on the belief that Judge Garland’s record offers no ideological targets that Republicans could use to distract from the Democrats’ demands for a fair process. “He does not have grand statements of policy or things like that in his opinions,” Mr. Eggleston said. “It’s a classic judge’s craft.”But on Saturday, two Republican senators, Jerry Moran of Kansas and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, revoked their support for confirmation hearings, saying they oppose Judge Garland’s nomination and saw no need for the process to continue.And Republicans are building a powerful opposition by lobbying Republican senators and rallying important interest groups. Carrie Severino, the chief counsel and policy director for the Judicial Crisis Network, which is working against Judge Garland’s confirmation, said in a statement on Friday that she was confident that even the Republican senators who met with Judge Garland would never agree to hold a hearing or vote to put him on the Supreme Court.“The White House’s attempt to manufacture Republican disunity is engaging in wishful thinking and confusing courtesy with weakness,” Ms. Severino said.White House officials acknowledge that if the months pass with no movement from Republicans, it might be difficult to keep the public’s attention focused on Judge Garland’s nomination, particularly in the midst of the circuslike atmosphere of the presidential campaign.But the Supreme Court strategists inside the West Wing said they expected to get a lift in attention from the court itself, which will issue important decisions on abortion, affirmative action and health care by the end of June. Those decisions will highlight the need to confirm Judge Garland, they insisted.If the court splits, 4 to 4, on some of those cases, the president and his team will be able to use the legal stalemate to press Republicans to relent. One adviser said the image of a court with a structural, institutional problem would help the White House make its case.The group of presidential aides and lawyers helping to prepare Judge Garland for his Capitol Hill courtesy visits includes Brian Deese, a senior Obama adviser, who manages the study sessions; Eric Schultz, the deputy White House press secretary; and Susan Davies, a former White House deputy counsel who led the confirmation process for Justice Elena Kagan in 2010.An outside group is also helping to advise the administration, but is not part of the sessions with Judge Garland. Among its members are Ron Klain, a former chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Karen Dunn, a lawyer at Boies, Schiller & Flexner and a former clerk for Judge Garland; and Cynthia Hogan, the National Football League’s top lobbyist who was chief counsel on the Judiciary Committee when Mr. Biden was its chairman.For now, the group has decided to follow the process that worked in previous confirmation fights. In recent weeks, Judge Garland has played the part of the conventional Supreme Court nominee, remaining silent as he walked past rows of reporters. During this time, he has recused himself from cases on the appeals court but has continued to carry out administrative duties.White House officials will not say if they might one day break with tradition by letting Judge Garland do interviews or give speeches.The officials are also counting on the Constitutional Responsibility Project, run by former Obama officials, and the myriad liberal groups that have made it their mission to help Judge Garland win confirmation.The groups have generated hundreds of editorials in newspapers calling on Republican senators to give the nominee a fair look. They have sent representatives to speak up for Judge Garland at town-hall-style meetings around the country. Some groups have begun targeted advertising calling for senators to “do their job” and give the judge a hearing.“We just got started,” said Brad Woodhouse, the president of Americans United for Change, one of the groups leading the outside-the-Beltway effort. “We are going to be everywhere.”Emmarie Huetteman contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS