AdvertisementSupported byCritic's NotebookAs a small kid growing up in the 1980s, I truly believed that Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey circus was the greatest show on earth.This show was Barnum’s final stop in New York after nearly 150 years of performing, part of the startling end for a storied showbiz institution, for decades a symbol of American ambition. (Its final performance is on May 21.) Long before television and radio invaded homes, the circus was the national entertainment industry, complete with vast marketing campaigns and global talent scouts. Imagine the response to seeing Disney or McDonald’s go out of business, and you get a sense of what someone from a century ago would think about Ringling Brothers’ closing shop.The company has faded over the decades, its grandeur eclipsed and its animal acts seeming fusty, but make no mistake: Something irreplaceable will be lost when Ringling closes up its tent for good — a tradition of inspiring awe that connected parent to child, generation to generation.Ringling didn’t invent the circus, whose modern origins date to around the founding of this country, but it supersized it, increasing the blockbuster visuals and the travel. P. T. Barnum and his partners led the first circus to transport its entire show (including animals) on newly built transcontinental railroads and coined the phrase “greatest show on earth.” After joining with a competitor in 1881 to become Barnum & Bailey, they toured Europe, gaining steam before merging with another competitor, Ringling Brothers, in 1907. What resulted was a cultural behemoth.By the middle of the century, John Ringling North, the circus’s impresario for three decades, promised to modernize the show, signing up Igor Stravinsky and George Balanchine to make a ballet of elephants. Brooks Atkinson, the chief theater critic for The New York Times, poked fun at the gimmick, before locating the peculiar appeal of the circus. “Nothing save the circus can overpower you with such a tremendous mass of entertainment,” he wrote in 1942. “It is the genius of the circus to give too much of everything.”The movies of course did the same, and if one were to pinpoint the moment when the torch was passed, it might be when Steven Spielberg’s father took him to his first film, Cecil B. DeMille’s portrait of circus life, “The Greatest Show on Earth.” A new showman was born.“Out of This World,” the current show by Ringling (led by its creative director, Amy Tinkham), is a reminder that nothing on a screen can replicate the wonder and urgency of the live circus. Keeping up with the times, this uneven production has some video and some projections, backing up some nonsense story about an evil intergalactic queen, a magic telescope and a journey through space, but these forgettable elements are secondary, mere interruptions to the real matter at hand: the acts.The highlights include motorcyclists (the Torres Family) zipping around inside a small metal globe, veering inches away from one another, and an incredibly daring group of acrobats performing feats standing on top of horses racing in circles at up to 25 miles per hour. Every couple minutes, a flood of ice skaters or animals pours across the stage, setting up the next death-defying number.There are some tepid efforts as well, like men on unicycles playing basketball, a few too many flubs like an acrobat falling into the net or a botched juggle. And any time the ringmaster (Johnathan Lee Iverson) sings a pop song, the show evokes a community theater production of “Starlight Express.” As is the case with most contemporary circuses, the comedy lacks any real wit or spontaneity, resorting to lame references to “Jaws” and the song “Ice Ice Baby.”What really distinguishes Ringling Brothers are the animal acts. They have long been the bread and butter of this circus — one of its most classic posters promises “the world’s most terrifying living creature.” And in this show, they were out in force: llamas, hopping dogs, a donkey, lions and tigers, a kangaroo and a lumbering pig.This menagerie has inspired furious protests, including activists outside this show holding photos of tigers that read: “Whipped for your entertainment.” For those who want their circuses cage-free, Cirque du Soleil shows that you can offer crowd-pleasing spectacle without lions and tigers and pigs.In response to the criticism, Ringling stopped using elephants last year, sidelining perhaps their most famous stars. (The word “jumbo” derives from the African elephant P. T. Barnum brought to America and showcased in his circus.) Perhaps it’s for the best. The world moves on, even when a link to the past is broken.When I took my young daughter to see Ringling a few years ago, just as my parents had done with me, it was the elephant that captivated her the most. On the way out, I bought a doll of one for her, with the red sign promoting “Greatest Show on Earth” over its trunk. That stuffed toy sat near her bed for years, long after she had lost interest in dolls. When I threw it out to make room for less childish things, I didn’t expect how furious she would get with me. She says she still misses it.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS