AdvertisementConsider the following four movie reviews:“Awesome!”“Awful!”“Criminally underrated!”“It is my sad duty to report that I was mildly disappointed!”The first two reactions are probably the analyses of amateur movie lovers, and the latter are more likely the declarations of professional critics, but still: All four are equally valid reactions to a movie-going experience. And all four are equally useless opinions, of no interest — unless that opiner can back up sentiment with sense. Analysis. A cogent explanation of the factors that go into passing personal judgment on a work of cinema. Reasonable minds can differ and all that, but the first requirement of any meaningful movie debate is a demonstration of that reason — beyond “I love Wes Anderson movies!” and “I can’t stand Wes Anderson movies!”In “Talking Pictures: How to Watch Movies,” Ann Hornaday provides a pleasantly calm, eminently sensible, down-the-middle primer for the movie lover — amateur, professional or Twitter-centric orator — who would like to acquire and sharpen basic viewing skills. An estimable movie critic at The Washington Post and a finalist for the 2008 Pulitzer Prize in criticism, Hornaday explains upfront that she did not grow up, in her words, as “a congenital movie geek”; rather, in a winding journalism career that began at Ms. magazine, she learned her craft on the job. In this way, she says, she is more like her readers than like a film studies major or a gender studies major or a was-Pauline-Kael-really-all-that? major. And, inspired by a series of instructional articles she assembled for her readers some years back, here she considers various aspects of filmmaking in chapters that roughly follow the timeline of production: screenplay, acting, production design, cinematography, editing, sound and music, and directing. (Missing from consideration: a grasp of cinema history and cultural context within which to assess Movie A in relationship to Movies B-Z.)Hornaday fortifies her observations with comments from film professionals — writers, actors, directors — interviewed for the project. She also peppers each chapter with suggested questions a conscientious viewer might want to ask in each category. The screenplay: “Did the movie flow? Did I care what happened next?” The acting: “Did the actors disappear completely into their roles?” The directing: “Did the movie reflect ambition and vision beyond simply recording performances?” Inevitably, as a seasoned critic, she asks questions that reinforce her own aesthetic preferences. And so, especially, does the recommended viewing she lists at the end of each chapter — certified examples of excellence that only the most insistent of contrarians might challenge, including “Casablanca” and “Chinatown” for screenplay, “The Hurt Locker” for directing, and Viola Davis in “Fences” for acting. (The book is current through 2016 and the triumph of “Moonlight.”)Since a professional critic is generally thought to be a genius when her opinion matches that of the reader and an idiot when it doesn’t — I have been hailed as both in my time — I can announce that Hornaday is a genius insofar as she loves the nonverbal, visual power of Alfonso Cuarón’s “Children of Men” as much as I do, and deftly dismisses the directorial stylings of Tom Hooper in “The King’s Speech” and “The Danish Girl” as “attractively appointed, visually inert parlor dramas.” Indeed, the author is so determinedly reasonable and adult in this levelheaded book that there is little incentive to argue with her criteria for what makes a movie “good” or “bad.”The downside, I suppose, is the lack of opportunity to call her an idiot. And that, to a certain portion of the opining, moviegoing public, is apparently almost as pleasurable an activity as drawing one’s own conclusion, backed by reason and emphasized by the turn of a thumb.Lisa Schwarzbaum, a former critic at Entertainment Weekly, is a freelance journalist.We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »