AdvertisementWASHINGTON — The Justice Department obtained a secret court-approved wiretap last October on Carter Page, a foreign policy adviser to Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, based on evidence that he was operating as a Russian agent, a government official said Wednesday.The Justice Department considered direct surveillance of anyone tied to a political campaign as a line it did not want to cross, the official added. But its decision to seek a wiretap once it was clear that Mr. Page had left the campaign was the latest indication that, as Mr. Trump built his insurgent run for the White House, the F.B.I. was deeply concerned about whether any of his associates were colluding with Russia.To obtain the warrant, the government needed to show probable cause that Mr. Page was acting as an agent of Russia. Investigators must first get approval from one of three senior officials at the Justice Department. Then, prosecutors take it to a surveillance court judge.AdvertisementAdvertisementThe F.B.I. declined to comment. James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, has described the hurdles to obtaining an intelligence wiretap as a “rigorous, rigorous process.”The official who confirmed the warrant against Mr. Page did so on the condition of anonymity because intelligence wiretaps are classified.The official was not aware of any instances in which an active member of Mr. Trump’s campaign was directly surveilled by American law-enforcement or spy agencies, though some Trump associates were swept up in surveillance of foreign officials.That assertion was in line with previous statements by Obama administration officials, including James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, who said during a March 5 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the surveillance court issued no warrants either for the president or his campaign staff.“For the part of the national security apparatus that I oversaw as D.N.I., there was no such wiretap activity mounted against the president-elect at the time, or as a candidate, or against his campaign,” Mr. Clapper said.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementA spokesman for Mr. Clapper did not respond for requests for comment. A spokesman for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence declined to comment.Mr. Page, a former Moscow-based investment banker for Merrill Lynch who later founded an investment company in New York called Global Energy Capital, has been on the F.B.I.’s radar screen for years.That year, the F.B.I. interviewed Mr. Page, who said he did not know he had met with a Russian intelligence officer.Last July, while working as an adviser to Mr. Trump, who accepted the Republican nomination for president later that month, Mr. Page traveled to Moscow and criticized American foreign policy toward Russia in a speech at the New Economic School, a university.The address in Moscow and Mr. Page’s contacts with Russians raised alarm bells anew within the F.B.I.Later that month, the agency opened its counterintelligence investigation into whether any of Mr. Trump’s associates had colluded with Russians to influence the election.AdvertisementMr. Page said on CNN on Wednesday that he was not a foreign agent. “Until there’s full evidence and a full investigation has been done, we just don’t know,” Mr. Page said. He repeatedly declined to answer questions about whether he had been interviewed by the F.B.I., adding that he had “nothing to say about any ongoing investigations.”According to court records, Mr. Page had been looking to make money in Russia, and Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service singled him out. The F.B.I. secretly recorded Russian spies talking about Mr. Page, describing him as an enthusiastic “idiot.”An earlier version of this article misstated when a federal judge approved a secret wiretap for Carter Page. Senate reports on newly declassified intelligence show that the wiretap was approved in October 2016, not the summer of 2016.Adam Goldman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »