AdvertisementUpdated, 8:44 a.m.Good morning on this sweaty Friday.The nature of the crash immediately stoked fears of terrorism. But there was no indication that was the motivation, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference.After the crash, we asked pedestrians near Times Square how safe they felt. The responses were mixed.Advertisement“Not at all,” said Sonia Martinez, 69, of Miami, who lived in New York for 30 years. “I’m so scared walking there,” she said, looking past a string of police tape into a nearly vacant Times Square on Thursday. “I’m always looking over my shoulder.”AdvertisementMs. Martinez said that she wanted to move back to the city, but that she had safety concerns.“New York is the focus point for terrorism,” she added. “Crazy people all over the world are focused on New York. It’s scary.”Diana Veloia, 33, from Harlem, who often walks through Times Square on her daily commute, said she was not afraid but didn’t think the area was the safest place in the city.“There is a lot of commotion going on and a lot of scammers there,” Ms. Veloia said.As for the crash, “drunk driving can happen in any neighborhood,” she said. “This is the first time that I’ve heard of a major case like this.”The police presence provides “an added level of comfort” for Sheba Frempong, 39, of Corona, Queens, who works as an executive assistant at 7 Times Square.For Abdoul Koita, 21, a ticketing agent for a tourism company, it’s the sidewalks that don’t feel safe. He works in Times Square every day.The city “should take real measures to protect the safety of pedestrians,” said Mr. Koita. He suggested raising the curbs and putting in speed bumps.Osama Khattan, 62, a sketch artist from the Upper West Side who works in the area, said the city should close the area to cars completely. But in general, he said, he felt safe.AdvertisementAs does Maria Cruz, 56, of Washington Heights, who hands out fliers in Times Square for Lazzara’s Pizza.“You can’t be scared and live here,” she said. “If you did, you would never get out of bed.”Here’s what else is happening:Think it was hot yesterday? It doesn’t look like it’s going to cool off.The weekend is looking lovely, though — clear skies, cool nights, and highs in the 60s.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementSaturdayAdvertisementSundayAdvertisement(Very Brooklyn.)See More »Go to Home Page »