After a humiliating 2014 cyberattack that helped lead to her ouster at Sony Pictures, the producer decided her life in the movie business was far from over.LOS ANGELES — After 18 years at Sony Pictures, the last 11 as studio boss, a position that made her one of the most powerful people in Hollywood, Amy Pascal had her life blown apart.What, she thought with not a small bit of fear, do I do now?“When you are the head of a studio, you are smart and fabulous and funny and good-looking,” Ms. Pascal said last month from the sofa in her Brentwood living room. “I didn’t want to just be me again. The idea of that was kind of terrifying.”AdvertisementShe added, “That job was my identity.”Getting fired is bruising no matter how big the gig, but it packs an extra punch in Hollywood, a realm where power is assessed second by second. To make Ms. Pascal’s situation worse, her mother and father, with whom she was quite close, died in quick succession not long afterward.Now comes the plot twist.Ms. Pascal, a 59-year-old woman in an industry rife with sexism and ageism, seems to have emerged stronger and happier, having reinvented herself as a producer through her company, Pascal Pictures. She will deliver three films to three different studios this year, with more than a dozen more movies on the assembly line. On a personal level, after a lot of soul-searching, some in a therapist’s office, she has tried to see the hack as freeing. After all, she has no more secrets.“My life is better now,” she said, pausing to pat her labradoodle, Sky, as scented candles burned nearby. “I would have never imagined I’d say that. But it’s the truth.”Only Ms. Pascal knows how she is doing on the inside. But there is no doubt that she has regained her professional footing after her final years at Sony, when she found hits like “22 Jump Street” and “American Hustle” but also backed bombs like “After Earth,” “White House Down” and “How Do You Know.”AdvertisementReally? Or was he just being nice?“I’m not that nice!” Mr. Rothman said with a laugh. “In all seriousness, she has moved on.”Even so, the transition from studio mogul to producer is one of the most difficult pivots in show business. Producing requires hustle in a way that running a studio does not. Mustering the necessary self-motivation often proves impossible for older studio royals used to waving a scepter. The best producers put their own egos aside and let others shine. Climbing corporate rungs usually requires the opposite tactic.At least so far, Ms. Pascal has not fallen into a similar trap.“It has been a challenge to be patient and allow myself to learn, especially at this ripe age,” she said. “There’s some discomfort in that. Starting over again means you have to shut up and listen. But you don’t want to because you want to show everybody that you know something even when you don’t.”She continued: “You think you’re making a movie when you’re a studio executive, but you’re not. The bigger the job you have in Hollywood, the less you are actually connected to the creative process. You’re in budget meetings and talking about head count all day. Your life is reactive.”AdvertisementIn multiple interviews, Ms. Pascal came across as excited and engaged. She was not especially interested in rehashing the hack, but she did not shy away from it, either.Before the episode was over, Sony became entangled in a censorship fracas, with free-speech advocates and even Mr. Obama criticizing the studio for temporarily shelving “The Interview” as theater chains balked at showing it. Hollywood stood largely silent, allowing Sony and Ms. Pascal to twist in the wind.Was she upset that more people did not publicly support her at the time?Has she sifted through the stolen Sony emails posted online?“I have never gone through it,” Ms. Pascal said. “But I assume that I’m the only one who hasn’t.”“I’m at peace,” she said.Maybe she was still working through some issues?“I will always carry what happened with me,” she said. “There’s no other way. But you scrape as much grace as you possibly can off the ground and you move forward.”AdvertisementBryan Lourd, the Creative Artists Agency superagent and one of Ms. Pascal’s closest friends, raised his voice when I asked him whether she seemed fully engaged as a producer. “I literally got nine emails from her yesterday about a phone call that she wanted to set with an actor,” he said. “I finally told her she had to stop.” He sighed. “But did the call get set? Yes, it did.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Oh, I went right back to emailing all the time,” she said. “I try not to say stupid things anymore. But what was I going to do? Write letters? Only talk on the phone, which I hate?”Ms. Pascal climbed from a small production company, where she started as a secretary, to a palatial Sony office that once belonged to Louis B. Mayer. Unlike many of her male counterparts in Hollywood, she did not benefit from family connections. The daughter of a bookstore-running mother and an economist father, Ms. Pascal got her first job by answering a classified ad after attending the University of California, Los Angeles, where she majored in international relations, with a specialty in Chinese foreign policy.“I never forgot that early training,” Ms. Pascal said. “When in doubt, work.”For her part, Ms. Pascal described her collaboration with Mr. Feige as an apprenticeship. “I learned about ‘plussing’ on this movie,” she said. “That’s Marvel’s favorite term. They look at something that is pretty good and figure out how to make it even better.”AdvertisementWait. Wasn’t it her job at Sony to make the best movies possible?“Marvel is unique because it specializes,” she said. “When you’re running a big studio, you’re pulled in a thousand different directions and you sometimes forget that the most important thing is the movie. I don’t like saying that, but it’s the truth.”Ms. Pascal’s producing projects are varied: superhero movies (“Silver & Black”), prestige-minded dramas (“The Papers”), bouncy comedies (“Barbie”). But almost every film on her docket involves female empowerment.“I’m not trying to correct or counterbalance,” Ms. Pascal said, referring to male-dominated Hollywood. “I’m interested in women because I am a woman, and that’s what I understand.”“It’s first and foremost a movie about Katharine Graham, a woman who went from being a little bit of a mouse to a lion,” Ms. Pascal said. “And that, to me, was obviously really interesting. She had to struggle to decide to speak up.”She added: “I know that woman. I’ve been that woman.”I asked her to elaborate.“You’re sitting in a business meeting, and you censor yourself because you don’t want the men sitting all around you to think that you are upstaging them,” she said. “You talk around your point. You find ways to make the men feel good even when they’re wrong.”She laughed when I asked (full well knowing the answer) if she had experienced sexism in her career. “Yes, yes, yes,” she said. “You can’t be a woman in Hollywood and not experience sexism.” Discrimination? “It’s never overt,” she said.Advertisement“I loved that job,” Ms. Pascal said of running Sony. “I never wanted to let it go. I loved it so much, to be honest, that I didn’t allow myself to believe that the movie business had moved on. But it had moved.”She smiled. “And, now, so have I.”An earlier version of this article misidentified a producer of “Molly’s Game.” It was Mark Gordon, not Scott Rudin.Go to Home Page »