AdvertisementSupported byArt ReviewGiven the economic, environmental and social policies emanating from the White House, the United States could be headed for its most dynamic era of public resistance since the 1960s, one for which the Women’s March last winter was just a warm-up. Such an era would demand fresh developments in political art, meaning art with a populist reach. Where will that come from?Not from our mainstream art world, the one represented by big museums and art fairs. That world is a tight and self-regarding place, an echo chamber with mirrored walls. It’s a bit more diverse than it used to be, but still lags way behind the population at large. In terms of economics and class? It’s a gated community, a closed door.If you’re searching for cultural models, even flawed ones, that effectively brought a message of social change into the street, the schools, the workplace, people’s lives, you’ll have to look further afield. One place to start is the exhibition “Black Power!” at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, a branch of the New York Public Library in Harlem.By the show’s estimate, the Black Power movement in America operated at full strength for about a decade. Many people involved found their inspiration in the radical human rights activist Malcolm X, but took different lessons from his example. The Black Panthers adhered to his injunction to provide on-the-ground care — education, nourishment, protection — for black communities in the United States. Concurrently, the black nationalist movement emphasized his globalist and Pan-African interests. Between these two poles arose splinter groups with conflicting agendas.Malcolm X had a cleareyed view of what people were up against in a nation — in a world — saturated with racism. For years, he seemed to suggest that the only solution was a separatist show of arms. But in his last years, before his assassination in 1965, he came to advocate culture as a weapon of resistance by persuasion, a resistance generated almost entirely outside established art institutions which, whether they wanted to be or not, were shaped by classism and racism.A cultural infrastructure supporting the new art grew. Revolution-minded galleries, bookstores and presses opened in African-American neighborhoods. The show has photographs of several such grass-root outlets, along with informal portraits of artists and writers they exhibited and published, among them Amiri Baraka, Romare Bearden, Jayne Cortez, Nikki Giovanni, Larry Near, Sonia Sanchez and Askia M. Touré. Some of these people worked in schools, others in prisons; most regularly hit the streets, as protesters and moral witnesses.But despite its intense motivational energy, Black Power as a movement foundered. The show doesn’t address this directly, but its excellent catalog does. Rival factions, driven by ideologies or personalities, came to blows. The United States government subjected movement participants to unrelenting surveillance and attack. A misogynist streak in the movement, as in American society in general, held firm. The single most universal sign of solidarity, black-is-beautiful fashion, was absorbed by the market, including the entertainment industry, and reduced to commercial fodder, a process already at work in the new protest culture today.Speaking to an outdoor crowd, she began: “At a challenging moment in our history, let us remind ourselves that we the hundreds of thousands, the millions of women, trans-people, men and youth who are here at the Women’s March, we represent powerful forces of change that are determined to prevent the dying cultures of racism, hetero-patriarchy from rising again.”The key word in the Baker quotation and in Ms. Davis’s address, as it must be in protest today, is “we.” True, it’s a huge word, and a concept no single institution can probably hope to encompass. But the mainstream art world, despite a well-advertised veneer of diversity, still barely even tries.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS