AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayGood morning on this stormy Friday.“Monitor social media and the news in the morning. If there is a major disruption, I’ll try to work from home. My fear is the evening commute.”— Justin Finnegan, 39, West Orange, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“Avoidance is my plan. As much as humanly possible. Also, driving.”— Susan Piskiel Blackburn, 63, Short Hills, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“I’ll use the PATH if necessary, though I fear herds of commuters moving inch by inch through Hoboken. So I’m looking forward more to the New York Waterway, which might seem like a mini-vacation each way. It’ll add 20 minutes to my walk to work, but maybe with a spring in my step from the boat ride’s misty wind.”— Joel Schwartzberg, 48, Chatham, N.J. (N.J. Transit)“Utilizing the Hunterspoint Avenue station as much as possible, especially during the evening commute. Many L.I.R.R. commuters do not realize how convenient and less stressful this station is.”— Jesse Pardo, 29, Lynbrook, N.Y. (L.I.R.R.)“I will avoid going into the city as often as possible. I don’t want to pay Long Island Rail Road. No fare reduction for me, as I wouldn’t want to go into Brooklyn or Hunterspoint.”— Charlotte Armstrong, 37, West Hempstead, N.Y., (L.I.R.R.)“My plan for the ‘summer of hell’ is simply to move to Brooklyn. L.I.R.R. isn’t great under normal operations, and I have no interest in seeing this circus continue.”— Jason Rabinowitz, 31, Woodmere, N.Y., (L.I.R.R.)What’s your Plan B during the track repairs? Let us know in the comments.Here’s what else is happening:If you plan to spend much time outside this morning, prepare to get wet.We’re expecting showers and perhaps a thunderstorm or two until your afternoon coffee break.The skies should dry up by Saturday afternoon, after which sun and temperatures in the mid 80s are on tap. Sunday is similarly warm and sunny.SaturdaySundayYou’ll need at least a high school diploma, sea legs and the desire to learn and to ask questions.NYC Ferry hopes to have 80 deckhands by the end of the month, and 100 by next summer.(And if you have the skills, the city is also looking to hire 50 captains by next summer.)Deckhands won’t be offered a corner office, but the position does come with quite the view.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS