AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisViewed in the most charitable light, Mr. Trump was, in his own nondiplomatic way, building pressure to force the North to halt its nuclear and missile tests, the first step toward resuming the kind of negotiations that Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has begun to talk about.But the most likely explanation is that Mr. Trump, who until now has largely avoided taking the bait that the North Korean propaganda machine churns out with its own warnings of imminent war, simply reverted to an old habit: sounding as tough as the other guy. The problem is that it clashes with the message his administration has been sending out in recent days that no pre-emptive strikes are planned and that there is plenty of time and space for diplomacy. Mr. Trump’s aides talk instead of an “integrated strategy” of escalating military and economic pressure to force diplomatic engagement.No one seems clear on what those “concrete steps” are. At one point in Seoul last month, Mr. Tillerson suggested the North must first completely disarm, though lately he has hedged that wording. But whatever the preconditions, Mr. Trump missed an opportunity to reinforce that effort to reassure the North Koreans that the United States is not looking to topple their leader. Instead, his message could be taken as the opposite.The fear is that small acts and mutual threats of war can lead to miscalculation. Only hours before Mr. Trump spoke, the North released a propaganda video showing the White House shattering apart in what looked like a nuclear blast. No one takes those videos seriously, but they indicate a state of mind in which every action has to have a reaction.“That’s what I worry about the most,” Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said recently. “Rapid escalation.”Past presidents have recognized the risk. It is notable that the shooting down of the American spy plane in Nixon’s time, one of the largest losses of Americans in a Cold War military attack, did not result in retaliation, in part for fear of rekindling the Korean War.Behind the scenes in the Trump White House, officials are just beginning to debate how to react to potential North Korean acts. One of the most active debates is over what to do if the North attempts a test of an intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach the United States. Should it be destroyed on the launchpad? Should the United States wait to evaluate its trajectory, determine whether it is likely to fail on its own, and only then try to intercept it in midflight? Such an interception carries risks of its own. If it succeeds, the North Koreans could retaliate. If it fails, it would be a huge embarrassment for the Pentagon.Such options are still being debated, as recently as during a meeting at the White House on Thursday, just as Mr. Trump and Mr. Tillerson were sending what sounded like uncoordinated messages.For their part, the North Koreans seem to have a pretty clear message. They are going to continue to push their luck, hoping that their string of missile failures will be halted, and that Washington, in the end, is not willing to take them on.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS