Steve Bannon once said it was the platform for the alt-right. Its current editors disagree. Is the incendiary media company at the nerve center of Donald Trump’s America simply provocative — or dangerous?Alex has been the editor of Breitbart for about four years. In 2008, he was the first employee hired by its founder Andrew Breitbart, and he began to lead the editorial staff when Breitbart died in 2012, although it would be another year and change before he claimed the title of editor in 2013. However you cut it, that puts Alex in charge of Breitbart long before last year’s election, responsible for the daily decisions about what to cover and how. If right now you’re thinking that it’s kind of weird how you’ve been reading about Breitbart more or less constantly for the past year, following the daily exploits of former employees like Steve Bannon and Milo Yiannopoulos, but this is the first time you’ve ever heard of Alexander Marlow, that’s by design. People close to Alex refer to him variously as ‘‘a shut-in,’’ a ‘‘misanthrope’’ and a ‘‘hermit,’’ who communicates with his staff primarily by phone/text/email and doesn’t have a lot of friends. In fact, if you have come across Alex before now, it was probably in mid-June, when some of the people on the business side of Breitbart persuaded him to appear on the HBO show ‘‘Real Time With Bill Maher.’’Before we get into that debacle and the jeweler’s-loupe clarity it gave to Breitbart’s predicament, you should know that in the weeks leading up to the appearance, Alex was nervous for all the wrong reasons. It seemed as if every time we got together, the topic of the show would arise, with Alex saying something along the lines of how much he hoped it wouldn’t happen. It wasn’t that he worried what Maher would ask him or how he should respond. Alex grew up in one of the crunchier enclaves of Los Angeles, went to school at Berkeley and lives today in Washington on the boundary between Dupont Circle and Georgetown, which is another way of saying that he has spent his whole life surrounded by liberals who can’t figure out why he doesn’t get it. More than most of us, he is accustomed to defending his job and his opinions to the postman, the neighbors and his wife’s colleagues with a faint, forbearing smile and quickly changing the subject if the vibe starts going south.What troubled him about the Maher appearance had nothing to do with the interview per se. It was the fact that after trying for years to maintain a certain balance in his public life — broadcasting his thoughts on Breitbart’s website and radio program but declining most invitations to appear on television and public stages — he was apprehensive about trading 15 minutes of face time on cable TV for the precious anonymity that allows him, for example, to shamble through his neighborhood every afternoon, walking his two dogs, without running into the rabble of protesters who have been known to picket Breitbart offices, or being spit upon by the 30-to-1 ratio of Democratic voters at the dog park.AdvertisementAlso, at a more basic level, he was feeling self-conscious about his looks. Alex is maybe six feet tall, with a thick head of dark hair that he brushes in the slapdash manner of a kid giving in to his mother, and he speaks in a bracing, nasal timbre that recalls a Wayans brothers imitation of white people asking for directions. Entering his 30s, he is well aware that his physique is filling out, hovering on the gauzy line between sturdy and stocky. I remember in particular a dinner that we shared about three weeks before the show, when he confessed, as we shoveled handfuls of stewed Ethiopian vegetables into our faces, that he’d been trying all week to stay off carbs and slim down for Maher.Advertisement‘‘The thing is,’’ he said with a sigh, ‘‘if I gain 10 pounds, seven of them go to my face.’’I mention this not to harp on a person’s ordinary insecurities but to give you a sense of how little importance he gave to the substance of the coming show. Among the topics that preoccupied our conversation — the precipitous rise of Breitbart; its elusive place in the taxonomy of conservative thought; its asymmetric impact on the last election and the subsequent migration of its staff into the West Wing, with writers like Julia Hahn and Sebastian Gorka decamping for senior policy positions, even as the company itself achieved a kind of mythic boogeyman status on the left — I don’t think either of us paused to consider that any of these things would be clarified in a few minutes of television.‘‘You do ignore stories, would you not agree to that?’’ Maher asks.‘‘On purpose,’’ Alex replies.‘‘Do you agree that Russia did meddle and try to fix this election?’’‘‘Russia absolutely was trying to interfere,’’ Alex says.Advertisement‘‘You don’t have to share your bona fides with me,’’ Alex says.‘‘But your followers threatened my family, my children, my wife,’’ Nance says. ‘‘You can apologize to me now.’’‘‘Show me the story,’’ Alex says. ‘‘If the story is as you describe it, I’ll be happy to offer an apology.’’For a moment, then, on the third weekend of June, it was possible to behold in a single television incident both the fracturing of the American public sphere into discrete fields of reality and their temporary reconvergence around the unlikeliest of propositions. Whether you trusted Daily Kos or The Daily Caller, whatever you thought about Russian hacking, however you placed yourself in relation to the dueling Manichaean orthodoxies of contemporary politics, for a few minutes everybody seemed to agree that just six months after tipping a presidential election, Breitbart was in retreat.Shortly after the election, my friends at The Times told me there was an internal debate over what to call Breitbart. Somehow, the words ‘‘news organization’’ seemed too generous, and anyway, didn’t encompass the weird power it had amassed — this company that began as a smattering of websites about Hollywood, government and the media, then morphed into a sprawling multimedia conglomerate with offices overseas, including an eight-person bureau in London and a daily radio program on Sirius XM, all financed by shadowy right-wing figures and buttressed by a mob of fervent readers whose engagement in the comment section, for example, dwarfs the comments at this newspaper by roughly a factor of 10, even as those readers/commenters/trolls remain, to most of the outside world, a mysterious horde of indistinct origin and uncertain intent.AdvertisementThis leads to a curious phenomenon as the Trump presidency proceeds and we begin to see long articles about Breitbart by writers who are clearly more familiar with the conventional wisdom about the website than with anyone on its staff. Writing about Breitbart has become one of the few instances in American journalism where it’s considered passable to publish a major feature speculating on the internal machinery of a company without naming a single source inside. A recent cover of Newsweek showed Alex hoisting Donald Trump on his shoulders, without any discussion of who Alex is, how he rose to power at Breitbart or what he believes.I’m reminded of an incident earlier this year, when an article in Business Insider reported that the staff of Breitbart had been ordered not to write critically about Jared Kushner anymore. The article explained this in the context of byzantine palace intrigue: Bannon, after butting heads with Kushner, was rumored to be planting negative articles about him in Breitbart, but Kushner’s allies caught on and complained to Trump, who ordered Bannon to stop the fighting. All of which made for delicious gossip but didn’t appear true. In the days leading up to that article, I sat in for maybe a dozen editorial calls with Alex and his staff, who don’t have a physical newsroom in Washington but gather twice a day by phone. Throughout that time, Alex repeatedly asked for more dirt on Kushner, whom he considered a ‘‘Wall Street Democrat.’’ Just that morning, I heard him instruct a staff member to call the White House every day and try to get Kushner on the phone. When the Business Insider article appeared a few hours later, Alex was livid, not because it was true — Alex vigorously denied it — but because, true or false, it shaded any story he wanted to publish. He had already heard from his senior White House correspondent, Charlie Spiering, who was working on a profile of Kushner and wanted to know if there was anything to this claim that he was supposed to back off.‘‘That’s what happens,’’ Alex said as we shuffled along a shady trail near his apartment that evening. ‘‘I told him not to let them get in his head — just write the piece.’’ But when I met up with Spiering a few days later, he had decided to kill the story anyway. ‘‘No matter what I write, people will read it as a response to that article,’’ he said. ‘‘If it’s tough on Kushner, I’m Steve’s attack dog. If it’s not, I backed off for Steve.’’ It seemed as if Breitbart was descending into a Droste effect. A story about the writing of a story came as news to the story’s writer and caused the writer to stop writing the story in an effort to rewrite the story about the story.‘‘We didn’t set out to study Breitbart,’’ he said. ‘‘Breitbart came from the data, not the other way around.’’The project, Benkler said, began with a friendly argument about how the internet works — whether it serves mainly as a distribution network for the articles on major media, or if small blogs and websites can funnel their own stories back into the mainstream press. ‘‘I had taken the position that it created significant democratization and open pathways for diverse voices to speak,’’ Benkler said. His friend and colleague at M.I.T. Ethan Zuckerman disagreed. ‘‘Ethan thought you saw more amplification and circulation of stories from the mainstream.’’But last spring, as Donald Trump was hurtling toward the Republican nomination in defiance of every analyst everywhere, Benkler got a call from the Open Society Foundations. This being an article about right-wing media, let’s insert the disclaimer that O.S.F. was created by George Soros, the billionaire activist who haunts the fevered imagination of the right in about the same way the Koch brothers terrify the left. At the time, nearly everyone assumed that Clinton would win the election, but people at O.S.F. were still intrigued by the rise of Trump. ‘‘They said: ‘Something different is happening,’ ’’ Benkler recalled. ‘‘ ‘We need to understand what.’ ’’AdvertisementBenkler made some tweaks and pointed his machine at the election. The list of websites it scooped up each day was dizzying. ‘‘We begin with several thousand sources,’’ Benkler said, ‘‘and then we look at links in all those stories, and we crawl out to grab them. If they fit the keywords that we’re looking for — any candidate name, anything around the election — we put them in the data set. Then we go to the links in those stories, and draw in those, and go to their links. Usually by the time we’ve done this 15 times, there are no new stories.’’At the same time, Benkler’s team developed a method to determine the political association of any website’s audience. If an article was posted by people who retweeted Hillary Clinton, they characterized the publication as one with a liberal readership. If an article was posted by Trump retweeters, they assumed the publication’s readership was conservative. I can hear you thinking, ‘‘Retweets do not equal endorsements,’’ but it turns out they mostly do. But when they encountered articles linked to by supporters of both candidates, they looked to see which side linked more often, then characterized the audience as center-left or center-right.Looking at the blue parts of the image, nothing was surprising: The largest circles were CNN and The New York Times, each shaded pale blue to indicate a center-left association. But the other side of the image showed just one big red circle: Breitbart. It was three times the size of Fox News and maybe a dozen times larger than any other news source on the right. If you wanted to know who was driving the Republican agenda in 2016, you didn’t need to look much farther than the massive crimson orb parked on Benkler’s screen.Benkler sighed. If the Trayvon Martin study challenged his theory about the democratizing power of the internet, the Breitbart study offered an unsettling confirmation. ‘‘An important part of what happened in this election is that a marginalized community, with views that were generally excluded, forced their way into the mainstream,’’ he said. ‘‘Now, whether that’s ‘democratizing’ or not depends on how much emphasis you put on people being able to contest an election versus how much you put on civil rights, protection of minorities, rule of law. You could say that if it translates into denigration of minorities, it’s antidemocratic. But as long as you are focused on the question of ‘Do you have an intensely engaged minority able to clarify its message so clearly that it can contest politically in a way that it couldn’t before?’ then it’s a democratizing effect.’’Unlike pretty much all of the above, Alex never adopted a swaggering Rush Limbaugh bravado. He never even thought of himself as a Republican. Even today, his basic menu of ideas is fairly conventional fare. He thinks the federal government is clumsy and wasteful, that rich people get too many breaks, that mucking around in other countries is risky, that anybody entering the United States should pass through customs and that nobody should be defined by his or her gender, race, religion or sexual orientation. He is fond of pointing out a conflict between the traditional American ideal of a ‘‘melting pot,’’ in which individual differences blend into a common culture, and the more recent understanding of multiculturalism, which tends to celebrate differences. Other than that, it’s difficult to know where he’ll land on many issues. He often declines to land at all. On several occasions, when I mentioned something in the news, he responded: ‘‘I haven’t made up my mind.’’ And I lost track of how many times he told me: ‘‘I’m not an opinion guy.’’ A few months ago, when the Trump administration announced that it was scaling back plans on the border from a ‘‘big, beautiful wall’’ to something that looked more like a chain-link fence, he sparked the wrath of two staff members by announcing on an editorial conference call that it looked O.K. to him.Advertisement‘‘In there?’’ I asked, looking at the building.‘‘Out here,’’ he said.Later that evening, Kassam and I traveled to a neighborhood of East London known as Tower Hamlets for dinner, where we encountered graffiti celebrating the Taliban and were harassed by young men who took offense at the sight of Kassam. Most of the locals on the street were dressed in traditional garb, with maybe half the women cloaked in niqabs and hijabs, whereas Kassam was wearing a blue blazer whose inner lining was patterned on the American flag. All day, the lapels had been flapping open to reveal the stars and stripes, but in Tower Hamlets he buttoned his blazer and kept his head down. ‘‘Do you know what Islam says about apostates?’’ he asked quietly. ‘‘The penalty for leaving the religion is death.’’I’m aware that what Breitbart is doing when it publishes a writer like Kassam is to co-opt the principle of representation and use his identity as a shield to promote inflammatory ideas. Kassam was hired by Steve Bannon, whose own fixation on Islamic extremism takes a far more apocalyptic context and tone. But I still think it’s worth holding in mind that when writers like Kassam or Hudson decide to write about the community they come from, they expect a certain prerogative to speak their minds without being labeled, as they so often are, traitors to their race.AdvertisementI won’t delve into all the twists and turns in this theory, but the underlying contention is that a few refugee intellectuals from the Frankfurt School — Max Horkheimer, Theodor Adorno, Erich Fromm, Herbert Marcuse — were lucky enough to escape the Nazis for sunny California, and being constitutionally incapable of happiness, promptly began complaining. Their grousing and moaning and general sourpuss disposition soon filtered into academia, Hollywood and the media, then into the upper echelons of American snobbery, a.k.a. the Democratic Party. So today you have, per Breitbart, a ‘‘Democrat-Media Complex’’ whose principal aim is to disparage everything quintessentially American, by which he really means Americana — think Norman Rockwell archetypes and whatever social conventions they imply. This is extraordinarily reactionary stuff, but not especially political in the sense of electioneering. Andrew Breitbart was never as interested in backing candidates as he was in attacking the media and entertainment industries for corroding American traditions. When people asked Breitbart why he wasn’t more involved in electoral politics, he liked to say that if you could reorient news and entertainment, the rest would follow. ‘‘Politics,’’ he often said, ‘‘is downstream from culture.’’Solov is about as media-shy a personality as exists in American life, and despite my most plaintive efforts, he opted not to speak to me for this article. But I heard that many of the editorial staff were skeptical of his decision to hire Bannon, who had never been formally involved with the websites and was known for his explosive outbursts about politics. When staff members expressed concern to Solov, he reassured them that Bannon’s role would be limited to fund-raising and public relations.For a few months, this proved true, but soon Bannon began to dial in to editorial conference calls; he began to interject suggestions, and then to make demands. At the same time, Alex was becoming increasingly central to the daily work flow. Unlike Pollak and Shapiro, he wasn’t particularly fast or facile as a writer, but he was widely regarded as the best on staff at selecting which stories would resonate with readers, and he had a knack for punchy, half-comic headlines. Many of the other editors and writers believed he was already functioning as the editor. In the summer of 2013, Alex approached Solov and Bannon to ask for the top job. At a meeting in Los Angeles, where he made the case in person, he told me Bannon ‘‘had this little smile, like he wasn’t sure he would go for it, but he liked that I was asking.’’ Alex got the job.Although staff members believed Bannon wouldn’t have a role in website content, he continued to parachute into editorial decisions any time he wanted. Alex describes Bannon’s approach as ‘‘theatrical,’’ but other people are more blunt. When Bannon wanted a story assigned or changed, they say, he would call Alex and commence screaming. Alex occasionally pushed back, but far more often he deferred. The stories that Bannon pushed were some of the most ideologically driven. Under his leadership, the site’s coverage of immigration focused not just on trade and jobs but on panicky stories about the coming of American Shariah. So you could say that Bannon influenced only a handful of stories each week, but it’s probably more accurate to say that he guided every editorial decision that mattered.After Breitbart’s death, Bannon began to steer the site in a more nakedly political direction. If politics was downstream from culture, Bannon was downstream from Breitbart. He began to use the company as a tool for political action, coordinating with the site’s activist investors Robert and Rebekah Mercer and using the website to support candidates and partisan causes. At the root of this lay the agenda described in Mead’s book: American workers were under siege by clueless elitists whose embrace of open borders, trade agreements and environmental zealotry was destroying the working class.AdvertisementThe last thing Yochai Benkler noted before I left his office at Harvard was that his team had performed a textual analysis of all the stories in their database, and they found a surprising result. ‘‘One thing that came out very clearly from our study is that Breitbart is not talking about these issues in the same way you would find on the extreme right,’’ he said. ‘‘They don’t use the same language you find on sites like VDARE and The Daily Stormer’’ — two sites connected to the white-nationalist alt-right movement. He paused for a moment, then added: ‘‘Breitbart is not the alt-right.’’ Yet precisely because articles on the site were often less extreme than their own worst headlines, Breitbart functioned as a legitimizing tether for the most abhorrent currents of the right wing. Benkler referred to this as a ‘‘bridge’’ phenomenon, in which extremist websites linked to Breitbart for validation and those same fanatics could then gather in Breitbart’s comment section to hurl invectives.Shapiro’s story suggests a more complicated view of Breitbart’s relationship to the extreme right: not an exponent of all the most incendiary rhetoric but its willing conduit. Under Bannon, the site seemed content to welcome its alt-right base. This is what Bannon meant when he described the site as a ‘‘platform for the alt-right,’’ and what Yiannopoulos was doing in March 2016 when he published ‘‘An Establishment Conservative’s Guide to the Alt-Right.’’ Maybe the difference between these things is slight — between espousing hatred and indulging it — but how you parse that distinction will shape the way you interpret what Alex is doing now.How much of this comes at Bannon’s direction is hard to say. Bannon received an ethics waiver that allows him to remain in contact with Breitbart staff, and it would seem pretty obvious that some conspiring must go on. No writer on earth would allow a colleague to decamp for a job in the White House without pestering the daylights out of him for leads and scoops; what’s harder to explain is why so few of those leads and scoops turn up on Breitbart. When a White House leak does surface on the right, it’s far more likely to appear in a competitor, like Shapiro’s The Daily Wire or the blog of Mike Cernovich. Shapiro told me that he doesn’t think Bannon gives much to Breitbart at all. ‘‘The way Steve plays the game, it wouldn’t make a lot of sense,’’ he said. ‘‘If he’s going after Jared Kushner, he’s not going to do that through Breitbart, because it’s too obvious.’’ Charlie Spiering has yet to land an interview with the president, and in early June, Alex traveled to Sicily for the G-7 meeting, hoping to interview Trump himself — but Trump declined to see him. ‘‘It’s starting to become a pattern,’’ Alex told me recently. ‘‘They’re keeping us out of reach.’’We were sitting at a Mexican restaurant sipping mezcal, and I asked whether he felt he was trying to make Breitbart legitimate. At first, he scowled, but then he nodded. ‘‘Are we trying to become a legitimate news site?’’ he said. ‘‘Yes. The question is why. I don’t think we have a choice. We are so high-profile now, we get so much scrutiny, we have no choice but to get it right. That’s something that has changed over the past year. People read our stuff and pay attention. We don’t need to be outraged and hysterical anymore. We don’t need to wave our arms around, flailing madly because we don’t feel like we are being listened to.’’AdvertisementI mentioned that I didn’t really believe he would hire another Milo Yiannopoulos.‘‘You may be right,’’ he said. ‘‘It was getting to a point where Milo was limiting Breitbart, and Breit­bart was limiting Milo. Our stories should look like they could appear in any other publication. The bias now comes in story selection. We’re not going to cover the Russia scandal as much as we’re covering the cartels coming over the border.’’The problems with trying to legitimize Breit­bart are, of course, abundant. One is that conventional news organizations are themselves in a fight for economic survival; another is that the whole concept of news is in the midst of a revision. Most reporters these days think of objectivity as a laudable but abstract goal. Trying to verify facts and elide opinion may push a writer to higher standards, but the overall thrust of journalism these days has been a move away from the construct of objectivity, not toward it.An article on Aug. 20 about Breitbart News misstated the religious affiliation of a British anti-extremist activist named Maajid Nawaz. He is a former Islamist, not an ex-Muslim.Go to Home Page »