AdvertisementLONDON — One of the world’s biggest buyers of sports rights has a problem: It’s Qatari.The broadcaster, beIN Sports, has poured billions of dollars into securing rights to major events, notably in soccer, in recent years. But over the last three months, it has become entangled in a bitter diplomatic crisis in which several Arabic-speaking countries, led by Saudi Arabia, severed relations with Qatar, the tiny gas-rich emirate that will host the 2022 World Cup.For beIN, which is financed by the Qatari government, the fallout is starting to affect business across the Middle East and Africa, where it has millions of sports-loving subscribers. Viewers in the United Arab Emirates had their signals blocked for six weeks before the authorities there recently reinstated the channel. BeIN reporters have been harassed at stadiums, or removed from them to face stern questioning by the police. And in Saudi Arabia, vendors selling beIN Sports have been shut down, and marketing activities promoting the company are no longer allowed.“There are so many different levels to this issue,” Sophie Jordan, the general counsel of the broadcaster’s parent company, beIN Media Group, said on Thursday. “This is unprecedented.”AdvertisementMore recently, the obstacles have become so contentious that a sports rights agency, Lagardère Sports, was forced to step in to ensure crucial World Cup qualification games and Asian Champions League matches could be broadcast in countries in which beIN owns their rights.Advertisement“Every single obstacle to prevent the commercialization of beIN channels has been put in place by the Saudi authorities,” Jordan said.“The demands are so big that it’s politically impossible for Qatar to accept them,” said Jane Kinninmont, the deputy head of the Middle East and North Africa program at the international-affairs think tank Chatham House.But live sporting events, especially soccer matches, form the lifeline of beIN’s business, and they are where some expensive confrontations are taking place. As the sole rights owner for the final round of Asian World Cup qualifiers in the Middle East, the network — with production help from Lagardère — last Tuesday broadcast the biggest soccer game in recent Saudi Arabian history: a 1-0 win over Japan that guaranteed the Saudis a place at next summer’s World Cup in Russia.BeIN’s reporter at the game, an Omani national, was removed from the venue hosting it, King Abdullah Sports City in Jeddah, and questioned by the authorities before being allowed into the stadium minutes before the match kicked off, according to the broadcaster. The reporter, Hasan al-Hashimi, also reported having had some of his equipment taken, while at other venues, players and coaches have boycotted interviews with the channel, and reporters have been told to remove cubes bearing the beIN logo from their microphones.“The accumulation of all the incidents when there is a Saudi, U.A.E. or Egyptian team playing is starting to have a significant impact,” beIN’s Jordan said. “I have been working in sports for 20 years and have never seen anything like this.”The Saudi soccer federation did not reply to a request for a comment.BeIN has grown to become a major plank of Qatar’s efforts to use sports to brand itself as a global and regional power, and the company has committed billions of dollars to buy rights to the most popular soccer competitions, including the UEFA Champions League, Spain’s La Liga and England’s Premier League. That buying spree came after Qatar in 2010 was named as the host of the sport’s biggest event, the World Cup.AdvertisementIn its successful pitch for that tournament, Qatari officials had promoted regional unity. The day before FIFA’s final vote, Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser al-Missned, the wife of the Qatari emir at the time, said just that. Dressed from head to toe in maroon, Qatar’s national color, Sheikha Mozah said a World Cup in Qatar would bring the entire Middle East together, “from Doha to Damascus.”Current developments suggest the opposite. A land, air and sea blockade by Qatar’s neighbors has affected the country’s $200 billion pre-World Cup infrastructure program.“No doubt that the blockade has caused an inconvenience,” Hassan al-Thawadi, head of the 2022 World Cup organizing committee, said in an interview recently broadcast by Al Jazeera. He said Qatar could no longer work with some companies that had been contracted as suppliers or service providers for World Cup projects. “We have very quickly moved on to Plan B, found alternative sources of supply — alternative routes of supply as well,” he said.For beIN, the difficulties have been felt on a weekly basis. A beIN reporter was forced to remove the company’s logos from his microphone at the first leg of a two-game Asian Champions League series between the U.A.E.’s Al Ain and Al-Hilal from Saudi Arabia, and it was unclear if the same would occur at the return match on Monday. The Saudi and U.A.E. soccer federations did not respond to emails requesting comment on the dispute.BeIN is the sole authorized Middle East broadcaster for that game, part of a four-year agreement worth roughly $100 million. Yet since the political dispute began, a pirated version of the channel has been streamed illegally in Saudi Arabia. The bootleg operation broadcasts as Be-outQ, a play on the Qatari channel’s name. BeIN is pursuing legal action, Jordan said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.England’s Premier League and UEFA, the Champions League organizer, are among the partners that have lent support to beIN.“We have said many times that the protection of our copyright, and the investment made by our broadcast partners, is critically important to the Premier League and the future health of English football,” said Richard Molnar, the Premier League’s director of broadcasting. But it is unclear what influence the leagues can bring to bear.BeIN’s complaints prompted the African confederation to issue a directive to its members in June, urging teams and federations to set aside their differences with beIN and allow “reason to prevail.” But two months later, the problems persist.Advertisement“What we are asking from the football authorities are significant measures that are dissuasive,” Jordan said. “They haven’t done much, and the proof of that is the incidents are growing.”A spokesman for the African confederation did not respond to a request for comment.Complicating matters, Asian soccer’s governing body, the Asian Football Confederation, is led by Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa, a member of the royal family of Bahrain, which is among the countries backing the blockade. Sheikh Salman has said he has recused himself from any conversations or decisions involving the dispute, and the Asian confederation has told beIN that the issue will be handled by its disciplinary committee, according to three people familiar with the matter, but has otherwise not taken a public position.In a statement, a senior vice president for the Asian confederation, Praful Patel, said: “Integrity stretches beyond the action on the field to also protecting the rights of our broadcast and commercial partners, and enforcing the A.F.C. rules and regulations which govern matches played under its jurisdiction. I have been asked by the president to adjudicate in these matters which affect the West Asia Zone during the present challenging times and I will carry out those duties by ensuring this is a most comprehensive investigation.”When the Asian confederation’s contract with beIN ends, the network has the right to match any rival bid and renew it. BeIN has no plans to discontinue its aggressive push to accumulate sports rights in the region, Jordan said.Go to Home Page »Investigators believe a man in Arizona was distributing performance-enhancing drugs on a global scale, yet no charges have been filed. His clientele included pro athletes.On Aug. 25, 2015, a Swiss postal inspector reached into the river of 300,000 parcels that pour into that nation every day and, for a routine inspection, plucked out two packages arriving from Arizona. Inspectors unwrapped them and found serried rows of bottles.The bottles were suspected of containing performance-enhancing drugs, so they were shipped to an antidoping laboratory for testing. Chemists discovered three synthetic compounds that are illicit gold for cheating athletes. One sped the healing of tendons and ligaments. Another helped build muscle mass. A third stimulated the body to burn fat.The Swiss authorities notified the organization in the United States that investigates sports doping, the United States Anti-Doping Agency, and shared the return-address sticker. The packages were shipped by someone named Thomas Mann.His name drew puzzled shrugs from Usada investigators. That name had never crossed their radar, and they could not find a home listing for someone with that name in their database in Arizona or anywhere else.AdvertisementThe name was then stored in the organization’s computer system and largely forgotten, until it resurfaced in a different context several months later, triggering an intense pursuit of Thomas Mann and an aggressive investigation of his enterprise that involved federal law enforcement as well as antidoping officials.The existence of the investigation and its extraordinary findings have not been previously reported.Investigators believe what they uncovered was a trafficker who sat at the center of one of the broadest sports doping networks in American history, with tendrils that extended to Europe and Asia. In one year, he shipped parcels containing performance-enhancing drugs to more than 8,000 people, they determined. His substance of choice was peptides, a newly popular (though banned) substance among athletes that is essentially a building block for protein.His clientele included a dozen pro football players and coaches; pro baseball players and a major league batting coach; and top track and field athletes. There were Olympians and potential Olympians, from discus throwers to sprinters to pole-vaulters to weight lifters to wrestlers.Investigators assembled what they considered a hay pile of incriminating evidence: surveillance video of the man making the shipments; invoices and payment receipts; email messages; and testimony from several athletes who purchased drugs from him that corroborated the nature of his business.Yet the dealer has not faced criminal charges. He distributed drugs that inhabit a hazy gray zone. Prosecutors generally treat the possession of peptides, which are illegal without a medical prescription, as a misdemeanor.AdvertisementInvestigators also determined something else: The man’s name was not Thomas Mann. His real name was Michael A. Moorcones, and he had left the faintest of footprints. Born in Virginia, he was a lawyer with no law office, a distributor of sports drugs with no formal training as a pharmacist.I set out to find Moorcones. I drove 30 miles south of Phoenix to Queen Creek, Ariz., where suburbs expire in sun-blasted desert and the Superstition Mountains rise gray and jagged. I rang a doorbell in a subdivision. A balding, middle-aged man opened the door.Michael Moorcones?He nodded. “Yes?”I’m a reporter, I told him, and athletes tell me they purchased your performance-enhancing drugs. They say your substances help them out-train and outperform athletes who compete clean.Can we talk?Moorcones offered a hint of a chuckle. “I wouldn’t be interested in ever talking to anybody about anything. O.K.?”He moved to close the door.An intriguing name was tucked into the Al Jazeera documentary. Underground chemists spoke with reverence of a Svengali who produced and sold them high-quality sports drugs. His name was Thomas Mann.A chemist explained in the documentary how fastidious he had to be when ordering performance-enhancing drugs from Mann: “If you even use the wrong language with him, saying, ‘Oh, I’m going to use this,’ right away, boom, you’d be kicked off.”Advertisement“Tom carries it and is the only guy I trust to deliver actual peptides and not useless vials,” read one.His business model, according to investigators, was clever. They believe he operated the DatBTrue forum, a go-to place for savvy discussion of peptides. When an athlete on the forum would inquire about obtaining peptides, Moorcones, using a different name, would steer the athlete to Thomas Mann. So he was sending potential customers to himself.Moorcones, in the guise of Thomas Mann, or Tom Mann, would then rigorously vet the customers to make sure they were who they claimed to be and would be trustworthy clients.In the one year that Moorcones was under investigation, he had $1 million in sales.Moorcones’s business was a raging river in a much larger doping ecosystem. The demand for performance-enhancing drugs extends to every corner of professional and amateur sports, and well beyond. Name any sport, and chances are good that someone playing it has been caught doping in the past few months.Then there are wealthy users who flock to anti-aging medical clinics in search of youthful elixirs. They find doctors who will prescribe peptides and human growth hormone. The patients take all of these in hopes of adding muscle mass, smoothing wrinkles and reclaiming body definition and sexual vitality.Moorcones served both ends of this market, from athletes to the aging. All came to his online forum in search of the latest wonder drug.Moorcones purported that his products were intended for lab use only. In a 2014 email, he wrote: “I have the following batches available for in vitro purposes only. Peptides: Modified GRF (1-29) (2mg) @ $35/vial; $31/10 vials.” But a cursory reading of his customers’ online comments indicated that they were not being used that way.Dr. Todd B. Nippoldt, an endocrinologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., spoke to the scientific and health consequences of unregulated and illegal use.Advertisement“These people are carrying out quite sophisticated experiments on themselves at doses that far exceed anything in a lab,” Nippoldt said. “It’s quite remarkable and dangerous.”The original wonder drug of sports doping was steroids, and it remains the gold standard for athletic cheaters. There is nothing, doctors and athletes say, quite like the muscle-firing boost provided by synthetic testosterone.Then testing for steroids improved and some sports toughened their rules against doping. Steroids became a riskier play. But that did not stop cheating. Block one back alley, and sophisticated chemists scurry down another. The aim, always, is to find ways to build muscle mass, burn fat, aid recovery and increase the ability of the body to expand its aerobic capacity. This underground world soon turned its eyes toward human growth hormones and peptides, strings of amino acids and the building blocks of proteins.The Al Jazeera documentary underlined that peptides had become a prime ingredient in a cheater’s performance cocktail. The documentary caught Taylor Teagarden, a major league catcher, saying on hidden camera that he had taken peptides and never been caught. (Major League Baseball remedied that oversight and suspended Teagarden for 80 games a few months after the documentary was released.)Dr. Robert Salvatori, an expert on growth hormone at Johns Hopkins, noted that athletes were quite shrewd about the effects that drugs have on their bodies. History demonstrates that they often recognize the performance-boosting power before the medical community does.“It took scientists until 1996 to prove the muscle-boosting powers of steroids — which athletes knew years earlier,” he said. “We are running way behind.”AdvertisementA lean and muscular fellow, Bidlow described for me how he came to use peptides. He had been a sprinter at Grand Canyon University in 2015 when he sustained a hamstring injury. He was no potential Olympian. He simply wanted to run a few more races, so he asked around at elite gyms for a quick doping fix.“I had always been around people who used peptides and H.G.H.,” he said, although he declined to name names. “It sounded like peptides are super-effective.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He wrote down the names of suppliers. He found a lot of fast talkers who excited no trust. (The head of Switzerland’s antidoping organization told me that his agency’s tests have shown that 80 percent of the peptides advertised on the web are adulterated or outright fakes.)Then Bidlow learned of Thomas Mann’s site, which was refreshingly professional. And Mann’s peptides were real. “This wasn’t ‘bro science’; he is a pure brainiac,” Bidlow said. “He would post scientific studies breaking down how a peptide worked.”We sat in a coffee shop as Bidlow gave me a tutorial on peptides. He described which worked, which were difficult to detect and which were not worth the trouble. He said coaches and athletes — particularly sprinters — were enamored of something called insulin-like growth factor-1, known as IGF-1. It promotes healing and builds muscle in a fashion similar to anabolic steroids. IGF-1 occurs naturally in the body, and antidoping tests struggle to distinguish the natural from the synthetic.No sprinter or baseball player has ever tested positive for IGF-1. Do not take that to mean no sprinter or baseball player has ever used it; they just haven’t been caught.The antidoping world has occasional successes. In 2015 and 2016, Dodgers pitcher Josh Ravin, Indians outfielder Marlon Byrd and Braves pitcher Andrew McKirahan tested positive for peptides. Major League Baseball suspended all of them.Faced with the limits of testing technology, antidoping officials and investigators have asked the Food and Drug Administration and Congress to tighten laws and crack down on peptides and growth hormone.AdvertisementFor Drug Enforcement Administration officials, the problem lies with the weak wording of the laws that currently govern peptides.“If I catch you with heroin, it’s a controlled substance and illegal — that’s easy,” said Douglas W. Coleman, the special agent in charge of the D.E.A.’s Phoenix Division. “If I find human growth hormone, I have to build a case to show that it’s significantly outside what it can be prescribed for.“Peptides are more difficult still. There’s really no legal foothold.”The F.D.A. holds clearer regulatory authority; its officials could write tougher regulatory language and crack down on peptides and growth hormone. But agency investigators have paid scant attention to this black market. I asked, repeatedly and over many weeks, to speak with an F.D.A. official about the regulation of peptides and growth hormone.In the end, an agency spokeswoman sent a boilerplate email.“The F.D.A. takes seriously its mission to protect the health of the American public,” wrote the spokeswoman, Theresa Eisenman. “There are many complex factors involved in how cases involving the sale or distribution of illegal products are investigated and ultimately prosecuted.”Her email cited three successful peptide prosecutions involving four people during the past three years. Each of the offenders received a light punishment.Seeking a more detailed explanation, I called a former top F.D.A. official. He spoke on condition of anonymity, as he remains involved with these issues in the private sector. He described the F.D.A.’s stance as defensible. It has a small staff of about 200 agents, and they focus on plagues like tainted and counterfeit drugs, which endanger thousands of unsuspecting customers. The societal impact of peptides and growth hormone is far less severe, clearly.The former official described the world of illicit peptide and hormones as caveat emptor — buyer beware. “If rich patients and athletes are going to anti-aging clinics or the web in search of unregistered drugs, they know the risk,” he said.AdvertisementThe decision to downgrade prosecutions has all but decriminalized the mass distribution and use of powerful and untested drugs for athletes.That deeply frustrates those who are trying to stamp out chemical cheating by athletes. Jeff Novitzky once served as a top investigator for the Food and Drug Administration, and he was the lead investigator in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative case, in which he helped uncover doping by some of the biggest names in American sports.Novitzky now is a senior official with Ultimate Fighting Championship, the mixed-martial arts circuit. He is charged with cleaning up that sport, and sees governmental foot-dragging everywhere he looks.“For officials to complain that these are difficult, high-pressure prosecutions is a cowardly excuse,” Novitzky said. “The ease with which athletes, teenagers, anyone, can purchase and buy these powerful hormonal substances is mind-boggling.”Investigators discovered that Moorcones was shipping his products from a U.P.S. store wedged between a supermarket and real estate office on the suburban frontier of Queen Creek. Video surveillance revealed that Moorcones’s septuagenarian parents often went with him to mail his parcels.Eventually investigators obtained Moorcones’s customer list of more than 8,000 names. It was a rich hunting ground. Investigators found the names of pro athletes and forwarded the information to their leagues.Major League Baseball ended up suspending two minor leaguers. The National Football League was another matter. The Al Jazeera documentary had named six players as likely dopers, and the N.F.L. penalized not a single one. The Moorcones investigation yielded more names, which were shared with the league. The N.F.L. has penalized none of the players.Track and field athletes, weight lifters and wrestlers are another matter. The United States Anti-Doping Agency has jurisdiction over these sports and can punish athletes who violate doping protocols.AdvertisementUsada handed down a raft of penalties to Moorcones’s customers. Jason Young, a 35-year-old discus thrower and coach from Lubbock, Tex., who competed in the 2012 Summer Olympics, was suspended, as was Nick Mossberg, a pole-vaulter who competed at the 2012 United States Olympic trials and planned to try again in 2016. The investigation also netted a wrestler from Colorado and a weight lifter who graduated from M.I.T.All acknowledged ordering peptides from Tom Mann. None of these athletes had tested positive.Bidlow and Mossberg, the pole-vaulter, had worked and trained at Altis, an elite athletic training campus in Phoenix. Numerous Olympic athletes train there under the tutelage of coaches with global reputations.I called the recruiting director at Altis, Andreas Behm, who also coaches the sprinters and hurdlers. Bidlow and Mossberg, he said, had simply “gone rogue.” The elite training center, he insisted, had no larger problem with doping.The investigation of Moorcones stalled last year. The United States attorney in Phoenix had taken a hard look and given up because a federal agency — the F.D.A. or the D.E.A. — was not willing to bring a case. His distribution of peptides, they apparently decided, was not worth prosecuting. A lawyer for Moorcones demanded immunity for his client.Moorcones shut down his website and claimed online that he was ill. Worried customers speculated that his own drugs had sickened him. “I feel for the guy,” one customer wrote. “The community of illegal experimental medicine is losing a true hero.”Other clients speculated correctly that Mann was under investigation; they began to worry that their names had fallen into the hands of law enforcement. They were correct.Moorcones politely bid everyone goodbye. “I’ve enjoyed serving everyone through the years,” he wrote on his Authentiquevie site.Within months, investigators noticed that one of Moorcones’s prominent, high-volume customers had taken his business to a dealer in Florida, where anti-aging clinics peddling peptides and hormones grow like sugar cane. Other clients turned to an oft-investigated but still active peptide trafficker in Louisiana.AdvertisementThere was still much investigators did not understand about Moorcones’s operation. He distributed such massive volumes of illicit substances, but they were never able to determine the source of the drugs. Was he purchasing them from somewhere and reselling to athletes, or was he somehow manufacturing them himself? And were his parents aware of what they were shipping?Back on the edge of the desert in Arizona, I persuaded Moorcones to keep the door open another minute or two. “People all have their own agenda,” he told me.I allowed that this might be true. Any story grows more complicated when you hear both sides, I said. Why not tell me yours?He smiled faintly. “I wouldn’t be the person to give it to you anyway. Thank you.”This time, Moorcones shut the door.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBulletin BoardThe Reader Center is a newsroom initiative that is helping The Times build deeper ties with our audience.We have asked our standards editor, Phil Corbett, to explain our use of honorifics.I’m not sure whether one of my long-ago predecessors got similar complaints about The Times’s references to “Mr. Lincoln.” But I can assure readers that we have been consistent for many years in how we refer to an incumbent president: It’s “President Trump” (or President Obama, or President Bush) on first reference, and “Mr. Trump” or “the president” (lowercase) thereafter.No disrespect is intended.In fact, most news organizations dispense with the “Mr.” altogether and simply call the president “Trump” after the first reference. The Times is among the few outlets still using courtesy titles like “Mr.” or “Ms.” (with exceptions in our sports coverage and a few other areas). Some readers (me included) like the tone of civility and seriousness the titles convey; others find them old-fashioned and stodgy. And still others are just confused.Besides questions about the president, readers have asked about our references to the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, as “Mr. Kelly.” As a retired Marine officer, these readers say, he should be “General Kelly.”In most cases, The Times follows tradition and continues to use the titles General and Admiral for retired military officers. But we make an exception for those who take high-level civilian positions in government — the chief of staff is “Mr. Kelly” after the first reference; the defense secretary, Jim Mattis, also a retired Marine general, is “Mr. Mattis.” (With this, too, we take a bipartisan approach: The retired Army general David Petraeus was “Mr. Petraeus” as C.I.A. director in the Obama administration.)The idea is to avoid confusion and make it clear that the official is serving in a civilian role, not a military one. By contrast, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, is still “General McMaster” because he remains on active duty in the Army.Questions also arise about titles for medical doctors. Our style is to use “Dr.” only for those whose medical practice remains their primary occupation. That means doctors-turned-politicians get “Mr.” or “Ms.,” not “Dr.” Here, too, the practice is nonpartisan. Howard Dean, a doctor, former Vermont governor and onetime Democratic candidate for president, is “Mr. Dean” for us, and Senator Rand Paul, a Republican and ophthalmologist, is “Mr. Paul.”A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWASHINGTON — A federal law that effectively bans commercial sports gambling across most of the nation faced skepticism at the Supreme Court on Monday. A majority of the justices indicated that the law had crossed a constitutional line by requiring states to do the bidding of the federal government.New Jersey is leading the challenge to the law, and Chris Christie, the state’s governor, watched the argument from the front row.Americans are estimated to annually place $150 billion in illegal wagers on sports. If the Supreme Court strikes down the law, dozens of states could quickly make such wagers legal and reap tax revenues from them.The court’s decision, expected by June, could also affect other conflicts between federal and state authorities. At Monday’s argument, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said some forms of federal regulation of marijuana could be threatened by a ruling that allows sports betting.AdvertisementThe betting law, the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992, prohibited states from authorizing sports gambling. It exempted Nevada, where sports betting has long been legal, along with sports lotteries in Delaware, Montana and Oregon. Other states were given a year to opt in, but none acted in time.AdvertisementIn 2011, though, as casinos in Atlantic City were losing revenue, voters in New Jersey amended its state Constitution to allow sports betting, and the state Legislature soon passed a law authorizing it. The four major sports leagues successfully challenged the state law as a violation of the federal one.In 2014, the Legislature tried a new approach, partly repealing its existing bans on sports betting to allow it at racetracks and casinos. The leagues again sued and won.In the Supreme Court, the federal law faced headwinds.“The citizens of the State of New Jersey are bound to obey a law that the state doesn’t want but that the federal government compels the state to have,” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said.He said that crossed a constitutional line and blurred the political accountability of elected officials. “The citizen doesn’t know,” he said. “Is this coming from the federal government? Is this coming from the state government? That’s precisely what federalism is designed to prevent.”The Supreme Court has said that the federal government may not commandeer state resources to achieve federal objectives. On the other hand, the court has said that the federal government may regulate all sorts of things directly and that federal laws pre-empt contrary state laws under the Constitution’s supremacy clause.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Most of Monday’s argument in Christie v. National Collegiate Athletic Association, No. 16-476, was an effort to decide whether the 1992 law amounted to unconstitutional commandeering or permissible pre-emption.Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for New Jersey, said the law was a “direct command” to the states rather than a federal effort to regulate sports betting.Justice Stephen G. Breyer proposed a distinction. The federal government can first make a policy determination to regulate an activity, he said. “Once it makes that determination, it can forbid state laws inconsistent with that determination,” he said. “That’s called pre-emption.” What it cannot do, he added, “is to tell the state how to legislate.”AdvertisementMr. Olson agreed. “I wish I had said that myself, Justice Breyer,” he said.Justice Elena Kagan did not seem fully persuaded, asking whether state officials were required to do anything in particular by the 1992 law. “Who is being conscripted in order to do what here?” she asked.Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for the sports leagues and Mr. Olson’s successor as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration, said the 1992 law was part of a set of regulations establishing federal policy. “Congress in all of these statutes did not want there to be sports gambling schemes operating in interstate commerce,” he said.Jeffrey B. Wall, a deputy solicitor general who argued in support of the leagues, said New Jersey was not entitled to repeal only a part of its law, thereby “channeling sports gambling to particular state-preferred providers.” He added that the federal government would not object to a wholesale repeal of the state law.“The problem that Congress was confronting was state sponsored and sanctioned sports gambling schemes,” Mr. Wall said. “It didn’t care if I bet with my buddy on the Redskins game or we had an office pool. It wasn’t going after all sports gambling.”For most of the argument, the lawyers and the justices ignored the potential consequences of a decision striking down the law. Toward the end, though, Mr. Olson noted that billions of dollars were at stake.“Nevada has sports betting, and it has it regulated,” he said. “What I’m saying is, and all of the evidence supports this, that betting on sports is taking place all over the United States. Five percent of it is legal in Nevada. The rest of it is illegal. New Jersey decided we are going to look at it.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseAmazon will probably narrow the list to a group of finalists before conducting site visits and meeting with elected officials and community leaders. It has said it expects to reach a decision next year.Still, Amazon’s stated objectives and past behavior — along with interviews with people working with the company on the selection process (none of whom were willing to be named because of their Amazon ties) and corporate governance and location experts — yield some insights into what factors the retailer values most highly and where the new headquarters may end up. (An Amazon spokesman declined to comment.)This means far more than an attractive building or campus. Amazon prides itself on having its existing headquarters embedded in the urban fabric of Seattle. Just this month, the company said it would take over the top six floors of the Macy’s department store downtown — a move rich in irony, given how Macy’s has struggled in competing with online retailers — and it will occupy all of the office space at the Rainier Square development that is planned for the city’s downtown area.The idea of inhabiting the sort of self-contained suburban corporate parks so common in Silicon Valley seems anathema to Amazon. The company has said that 20 percent of its employees in Seattle don’t use motorized transport to get to work. Fifty-five percent walk, ride bikes or use public transportation. Fifteen percent live in the ZIP code where they work.Amazon deliberately provides cafeteria space for only a third of its employees, which encourages people to venture out of the office. The company provides retail space on the ground floor of its Seattle buildings and tries not to rent to generic national chains (its headquarters has a dozen local coffee roasters.) It has developed a sense of the kind of urban community that attracts and retains highly educated, talented and creative workers.In practical terms, this kind of dense, vibrant and architecturally distinctive urban environment exists mostly in cities that developed before the advent of the automobile, industrial cities in the Midwest and Northeast and older cities in Canada.Cities like Pittsburgh, Detroit and Baltimore are rich in underutilized historic buildings and neighborhoods that could be imaginatively repurposed, offering Amazon the opportunity to be a transformative force, something that seems to be part of the company’s DNA.Cyril Bouquet, a professor at IMD, an international business school in Lausanne, Switzerland, and an expert in companies with dual headquarters, said the choice of a second headquarters sends an important symbolic message.“Amazon has the opportunity to help build and shape a city and region,” he said. “That’s easier in a Detroit than a San Francisco. It’s much different than just tapping the talent that’s already there. Amazon will attract people and other companies that are inspired by that.”Next on Amazon’s wish list are capital and operating costs” and “incentives,” which Amazon identifies as “high priority” considerations. That is as it should be, said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “Amazon’s first obligation is to its investors,” Professor Elson said, which means finding “the most cost-effective city in which to locate a second headquarters,” one that “will produce the most value for the company.”Most contenders have been secretive about their bids, but the incentives will probably be substantial. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and state lawmakers, for instance, have offered a $7 billion package of tax breaks on behalf of Newark. Any city that really wants Amazon will have to ante up, and most will find the wherewithal to do so.New York City, with a score of 104.7, and San Francisco (104.5) are two of the most expensive cities in the country, making them long shots. (Seattle, at 100.8, is just above the baseline.) Boston, at 101.2, would probably barely make the cut. Washington’s score is 99.4.The lowest-cost American cities are mostly in the Sunbelt; Austin’s score is 96.2. But many older industrial cities also offer cost advantages: Cincinnati (94), Baltimore (96.5), Pittsburgh (97), Chicago (98.3) and Philadelphia (99.8) are all below the baseline. Thanks to the strong dollar (which could change over time), Canadian cities fare especially well: Montreal’s score is 85.2; Toronto’s is 85.6. Both cities also have vibrant urban cores and have emphasized Canada’s talent-friendly immigration policies.“Labor Force” is third on Amazon’s list. The company appears to be bumping up against the limits of Seattle’s talent pool.The top cities on that list are San Francisco and the Bay Area, Seattle and New York — no surprises there. But other cities also fare well: Washington is No. 4, Toronto is No. 6, Boston is No. 9 and Baltimore is No. 11.Conversely, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Milwaukee and St. Louis all rank so low it is hard to see them as viable contenders.Detroit, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh fall somewhere in the middle, but could still be competitive. Amazon appears less concerned with how many tech workers already live and work in an area than with its ability to attract the talent it wants. Seattle was hardly a tech magnet before Amazon, Microsoft and then a host of once-fledgling technology firms set up operations there. Amazon expects its arrival in a new city to have a similar impact.Amazon adds that “a strong university system is required.”Many contending cities offer first-rate universities, including highly ranked programs in technology. Boston is a standout, with Harvard, M.I.T., Boston College, Boston University, but Baltimore offers Johns Hopkins University and Toronto has the University of Toronto and York University.Amazon cites logistics as “critically important,” specifically the presence of an international airport that offers direct flights to Seattle, Washington, New York and San Francisco. (These cities are likely to have a large Amazon presence no matter who wins the competition for the second headquarters.)In addition to major airports, Boston, Baltimore and Philadelphia are all on Amtrak’s northeast rail corridor, with easy rail access to New York and Washington.“Community cultural fit” and “community quality of life” are last on Amazon’s list of preferences. Along with the usual amenities, Amazon specifically mentions “a diverse population” and, again, “excellent institutions of higher education.” If weather and independent coffee roasters are important, Austin would be a good fit.Most major cities offer an array of cultural, culinary, recreational and sports attractions, and any that they lack will most likely spring up if Amazon arrives.That puts a premium on diversity and education, factors important in attracting a talented work force. Given Amazon’s vocal support for diversity and inclusion, it seems unlikely it would choose a city or state perceived as intolerant or that has moved to curb civil rights, like North Carolina’s widely publicized effort to curb gay and transgender rights.There are obviously many variables still to be assessed, but based on these criteria and the weight I expect Amazon to place on them, here are my finalists, in descending order: Pittsburgh, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Toronto, Chicago and Boston.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byMr. Douglas fell for the game at an early age while growing up in Philadelphia. When the United States men’s hockey team plays its first game at the Pyeongchang Olympics, on Wednesday against Slovenia, Mr. Douglas will be there, keeping a close eye on Jordan Greenway, the first African-American to play for the team.I started The Color of Hockey in December 2012. It was born of the Stanley Cup playoffs series in 2012 between the Washington Capitals and the Boston Bruins. In that series, the Capitals forward Joel Ward, who now plays for the San Jose Sharks, scored the Game 7 overtime goal that eliminated the Bruins from the playoffs. The goal unleashed a torrent of racist social media posts aimed at Ward, who is black, from so-called Bruins fans. I had thought that we were beyond that in hockey, but I was wrong. So I decided to start the blog to help educate people — white and minority — that folks of color have a hockey history and a place in the game. I like to say that The Color of Hockey is about the history and growing impact of people of color in the game.I’m a goaltender who still plays about once a week, or as my work/family schedule allows. I started playing when I was 12 or 13 years old, growing up in Philadelphia. I was home sick watching T.V. and came across the 1972 Summit Series between Team Canada and the Soviet Union. I liked what I saw, but I really didn’t know what hockey was. So I looked it up in the encyclopedia. When I got well, I saved my allowance and bought a pair of skates. After I got proficient on blades, I saved more and bought goalie equipment. I taught myself to play the position, watching N.H.L. goalies on T.V. and reading Jacques Plante’s book on goaltending. I joined a bantam hockey team out of West Philadelphia that played at the University of Pennsylvania’s Class of 1923 rink. I progressed and played one season of Junior B-level hockey for a team that was called Red Lion and belonged to a league called the Junior Mid-Atlantic League. We weren’t very good as a team, but I learned a lot about goaltending because I saw a ton of shots.That’s an interesting question. My 19-year-old twin daughters ask me when I sleep. I tell them “I don’t know.” I blog as time allows — at least once a week, usually writing posts on the weekend while watching hockey on T.V. And sometimes my political work and hockey merge. I occasionally play pickup hockey with Capitol Hill staffers and lobbyists. I used to play morning pickup with a group that included the then-Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts.I think the face of hockey is changing for several reasons. In many ways it reflects the changing of North America through the growth of minority populations and immigration. Karl Subban, the father of the Nashville Predators defenseman P.K. Subban, likes to tell the story about how he moved with his family from Jamaica to Sudbury, Ontario, as a boy and how hockey helped him assimilate into the Canadian fabric. I think increased affluence also has something to do with it. Minority families are moving out of cities and into suburbs and their kids are playing what their new friends are playing. It may be hockey, or soccer, or lacrosse. As for urban kids whose families who can’t afford hockey, there are a growing number of programs that provide equipment, ice time and instruction at little or no costs. These include programs like Philadelphia’s Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation, New York’s Ice Hockey in Harlem and Washington’s Fort Dupont Ice Hockey Club. Fort Dupont is the oldest minority-oriented youth hockey program in the United States.Greenway is huge — 6-foot-5, 230 pounds — at 20 years old. He’s a dangerous combination of size, speed and finesse. He earned his way onto the U.S. roster from his performance at the 2017 International Ice Hockey Federation World Junior Championship that was played in Montreal and Toronto. Greenway was consistently one of the best players on the ice. A man among boys is a sports cliché, but with his size and scoring hands, he was indeed a man among boys. He should be in the N.H.L. sometime after he finishes at Boston University. He’s a 2015 second-round draft pick of the Minnesota Wild. He has a younger brother, defenseman J.D. Greenway, who plays for the University of Wisconsin (coached by the U.S. Olympic hockey coach Tony Granato) and was drafted by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the third round of the 2016 N.H.L. Draft.As a fan, I have mixed feelings about the N.H.L. not being in Pyeongchang. It feels odd not having the best players in the world here. At the same time, the lack of N.H.L. starpower makes the men’s Olympic hockey tournament a wild card that could be full of surprises.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWASHINGTON — President Trump began his first Thanksgiving vacation in office with an early-morning Twitter rage in which he again vented about some of his favorite targets: sports figures he thinks have defied him.Together, the posts were a reprise of Mr. Trump’s personal attacks against sports figures — many of them African-American — for what he judges to be poor behavior on their part and a failure to demonstrate enough deference to others.AdvertisementWhite House officials deny that the president is focused on race when he comments about sports and athletes. But to historians and black activists, the tweets are clear evidence of an attempt by the president to send a message of solidarity to many supporters.Advertisement“President Trump appears to have a peculiar overfascination with African-American athletes and a negative fascination,” said Douglas A. Blackmon, the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book “Slavery By Another Name” and the host of “American Forum,” a weekly show produced by the University of Virginia’s Miller Center.Twitter has long been the president’s preferred method for directing his outrage at individuals, and those of all races have been his targets, including Hillary Clinton; James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director; and Khizr Khan, the Pakistani father of a fallen American soldier.But Mary Frances Berry, who is African-American and who served as the chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, said that Mr. Trump’s particular desire during his first year in office to lash out at African-American sports figures was hard to ignore.“It just reinforces a theme that’s already on their mind,” Ms. Berry, now a professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania, said of the president’s tweets. “It’s tailor-made for him to spout off and reinforce his base.”Speaking to an adoring, and mostly white, crowd in Huntsville, Ala., in September, Mr. Trump referenced the actions of football players like Mr. Kaepernick who knelt during the national anthem and said he would love to see an N.F.L. owner say, “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.”AdvertisementMr. Ball stoked the confrontation with the president this week, refusing on CNN to thank Mr. Trump for his assistance and saying that “I don’t have to say, to go around saying thank you to everybody.”That interview appears to have prompted the angry response from Mr. Trump. He insisted that he was the one who rescued Mr. Ball’s son, and he chided Mr. Ball for refusing to give Mr. Trump the due he felt he deserved.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump has repeatedly denied that his criticism of kneeling is aimed at African-American players. “The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race,” he tweeted in September. And White House officials have said the president’s tweets are about patriotism.“This isn’t an us-versus them. This should be something that brings our country together,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters in the days after Mr. Trump first raised the issue. “All Americans should be proud to stand up, salute that flag, salute that anthem and be part of that process.”Polls suggest that many agree with Mr. Trump. One taken in September found that 49 percent of Americans agreed with the president that it was wrong for football players to kneel during the national anthem to express a political opinion, compared with 43 percent who said they were right to do so.In some ways, Mr. Ball and Mr. Trump are made for each other: two publicity-seeking individuals who rarely shy away from a good verbal fight.It was the success of Mr. Ball’s eldest son, Lonzo, as U.C.L.A.’s freshman point guard last season that gave Mr. Ball a platform to build a brand. Since then, he has often let loose a series of attention-grabbing statements, including once claiming that — in his prime — he could have beaten Michael Jordan one-on-one.AdvertisementBut some of Mr. Trump’s critics say the president’s attack on Mr. Ball was about more than just chest-thumping between the two men. They say it echoes what they view as an obsession by Mr. Trump on sports figures who are black.Harry Edwards, a civil rights activist and professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, said that Mr. Trump understood that attacking black athletes — who are among the most popular figures in African-American communities — sent a powerful signal to some of his most fervent voters.“All of these attacks resonate with a base that have some severe perspectives on African-American equality and justice,” he said. “To attack African-American athletes is really a way of sending that message that these are others.”Mr. Trump has excoriated the N.F.L. for allowing players to kneel, which he sees as disrespecting the American flag. In his tweet on Wednesday, the president criticized Roger Goodell, the longtime leader of the football league, asking “when will the highly paid Commissioner finally get tough and smart? This issue is killing your league!”Mr. Blackmon said Mr. Trump’s focus on the actions of the players suggested that he took a particular affront when his expectations of their behavior was not met.“This consistent pattern — African-Americans who stand up in a sense to him, who do not seem to be sufficiently compliant — seem to draw particular ire,” Mr. Blackmon said.Marc Tracy contributed reporting from New York.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byCHICAGO — For Jeff Glass, there have been so many stops during his existence as a hockey vagabond, so many different jerseys that he has worn, so many teams he has tended goal for from Binghamton to Belarus and plenty of other outposts in between, and so many moments when it would have been easy for him to quit.There was the 38-game stretch in Siberia — where, to the best of Glass’s recollection, snow fell for 45 straight days. He played for the Kontinental Hockey League’s Sibir Novosibirsk then, and he found himself so far in the middle of nowhere that, as he put it, “all there was was hockey.”Now, after 13 years of wandering, Glass realizes that each step played a meaningful role in his finding his way to his N.H.L. debut last month as a 32-year-old rookie with the Chicago Blackhawks.“I never saw it playing out like this, being 32 years old and getting my chance,” Glass said. “But that’s my path and I’m proud of what I’ve had to do to get here.”Since making his inaugural appearance just 175 miles from his hometown, Calgary, Glass has registered a 3-2-1 record and a .910 save percentage while splitting time with his fellow backup Anton Forsberg.Since being called up, Glass has maintained a day-to-day, businesslike approach and has avoided becoming awe-struck in a room full of superstars. The Blackhawks (22-17-6) have struggled in ways that predate their three Stanley Cup championships since 2010. They are currently not in playoff position.But Glass’s feel-good story has resonated around the N.H.L. and even more so within the confines of the Blackhawks’ dressing room, where stars like Patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews have become big-time Glass supporters.“It’s been pretty cool to have a front-row seat for it,” Kane said.Glass was playing in Canada’s Western Hockey League when the Ottawa Senators drafted him in 2004 with the 89th pick. From there he went to Charlotte of the East Coast Hockey League, then moved to Binghamton of the American Hockey League. In 2009 he signed with Barys Astana in Kazakhstan and headed to the Kontinental Hockey League.A world away from the N.H.L. rinks he aspired to play on, Glass discovered a passionate fan base and the opportunity to grow and develop in a place he could not even imagine living with his wife, Allie. Then his agent mentioned the possibility of continuing his career there. Glass’s K.H.L. journey took him to Spartak Moscow, CSKA Moscow, Lada Togliatti, Novosibirsk Sibir and Dinamo Minsk.Glass landed on the Blackhawks’ radar in 2014, when team officials were seeking a third goaltender to round out their system. Mark Bernard, the Blackhawks’ general manager of minor league affiliations, became aware of Glass’s track record and penchant for hard work, leadership and attention to detail.But Glass instead elected to return to the K.H.L., where he would play until 2016, when he decided his best route to the N.H.L. would probably travel through North America, where his career had started so many years before.Glass got a training camp invitation from the Toronto Maple Leafs and played briefly with the club’s A.H.L. affiliate. Glass later signed with the Blackhawks and was assigned to their A.H.L. team in Rockford, Ill., just 90 minutes outside Chicago. Bernard immediately sensed Glass was prepared to do whatever was necessary to reach the N.H.L.“He’s a guy that had a goal in mind — ‘I’m going to play in the N.H.L.,’” Bernard said.Glass made 20 starts for Rockford’s IceHogs last season, and another 18 this season. He had just returned from a two-day holiday break in Calgary when he received word the Blackhawks had placed Crawford on injured reserve.Glass was instructed to meet the team in Vancouver. Glass first contacted his wife, who was in Calgary with the couple’s newborn daughter, Lucy.As thrilled as he was, Glass realized he could not allow the promotion to change his approach.“It’s a big deal, but you try to remember, I’ve been doing this for a long time, this isn’t my first year pro by any means,” Glass said. “It’s definitely a step up from where I had been playing, but all the years in Russia prepared me for this.”News of Glass’s call-up spread quickly. The congratulatory text messages and phone calls poured in from friends and family members, some of whom, Glass said, had not been in touch for years. As he prepared to join the Blackhawks, the freshly minted N.H.L. rookie could not help but think back on all of the steps that had brought him to this point.“Most guys might have said, ‘Hey, I want to get a real job and get on with Plan B,’” Blackhawks Coach Joel Quenneville said. “That’s a testament to how competitive he is and that dream of playing in the N.H.L. has got to be part of it.”Glass refuses to let the speed of the N.H.L. intimidate him. Same goes for the pressure of playing a role in moving the Blackhawks closer to a playoff berth. He cannot afford to predict how long he will remain while Crawford’s next steps are up in the air.Taking each day as it comes has always been part of Glass’s routine, and so he isn’t about to change a formula that has served him so well.“At the end of the day,” Glass said, “it’s just a matter of going out and stopping hockey pucks.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement(Reuters) - Scotland assistant coach Dan McFarland will leave the national team set-up and take charge of Pro14 side Ulster next season on a three-year contract, the organisations said on Monday.McFarland, who was named Scotland assistant coach in 2017, will serve a nine-month notice period until mid-January as Scottish Rugby look for suitable replacements.The 46-year-old will replace Jono Gibbes as Ulster head coach after the former New Zealand player announced he would step down at the end of the season."I am really excited that I will be taking on the Ulster head coach role. I know first hand from my years visiting with Connacht and Glasgow the passion and fervour that makes playing in front of Ulster fans so special," McFarland told Ulster's website http://www.ulsterrugby.com.Advertisement"It's a club with a great history and I welcome the challenge of being a part of their future."Scottish Rugby said in a statement that Worcester Warriors head coach Carl Hogg has joined the national side's coaching staff on an interim basis.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hogg and McFarland will work together as forward coaches during Scotland's 2018 tour of Canada, U.S. and Argentina.Ulster have had an inconsistent season where they were knocked out of the Champions Cup in January and are currently fourth in Pro 14 Conference B.Advertisement(Reporting by Aditi Prakash in Bengaluru, editing by Pritha Sarkar)Go to Home Page »AdvertisementOAKLAND, Calif. —  Stephen Curry's return from a knee injury will wait at least one more game.Curry sat out the opener of Golden State's Western Conference semifinal matchup against New Orleans as he continues to fully recover from a sprained left knee.Coach Steve Kerr made the announcement during his pregame news conference Saturday night. Kerr called it "very likely" the two-time MVP would play in Game 2 of the best-of-seven series Tuesday night at Oracle Arena."Just made the decision based on giving him the extra few days and the fact he only scrimmaged yesterday," Kerr said. "You've been out five weeks and we're playing in the playoffs, I don't think one scrimmage is enough, even though he feels great, he wants to play and pleaded his case. But we're going to sit him tonight and very likely he'll play Game 2."As usual, Curry insisted he "feels great and he's ready to go," said Kerr, who is encouraged Curry feels so good.AdvertisementCurry returned to full practice with contact Thursday and only scrimmaged 5 on 5 for the first time Friday, and Kerr prefers that Curry get additional on-court time at full speed Sunday before inserting him back into the rotation — which could be off the bench initially or on a minutes restriction, or both.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Kerr, general manager Bob Myers and athletic trainer Chelsea Lane met with Curry and made a decision to keep him out.Advertisement"We have to protect him from himself and his own competitive desire," Kerr said.Curry was injured March 23 on the same night he returned from a six-game absence with a hurt right ankle."We practiced the whole week with the understanding that Steph was probably going to play," Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry said. "And he will play. It's not like he's going to miss the entire series. We practiced both ways. What we'll do is Plan B, I guess, Plan A, whatever you want to call it."___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketballGo to Home Page »