AdvertisementSupported byThe Supreme Court agreed on Tuesday to hear an appeal from Gov. Chris Christie and the state of New Jersey to allow betting on professional and collegiate sports at the state’s casinos and racetracks.The case, which the court will hear in the fall, will be a major test for the federal ban on sports betting as established by the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, known as Paspa, which Congress passed in 1992 outlawing betting on amateur or professional athletes except in four states that already had operations.In a news conference in Trenton on Tuesday, Mr. Christie said he was “thrilled” by the decision of the court.“The fact that the Supreme Court granted cert. in this case is a very good sign for sports betting having a future in New Jersey,” he said. “I’m encouraged by it. We’re not declaring victory, but at least we’re in the game, and that’s what we want to be.”With that much at stake, the American Gaming Association announced the creation of a coalition this month encompassing attorneys general, the police, policy makers and others to advocate a repeal of the federal ban.“We are pleased the Supreme Court appears to have responded favorably to our arguments as to why they should hear this important case,” said Geoff Freeman, the president and chief executive of the gaming association. “And we are hopeful their engagement will provide further encouragement for Congress to take the steps necessary to create a regulated sports betting marketplace in the United States.”The N.F.L., long an opponent of the bill, has signaled a softening of that stance in recent months with the commissioner, Roger Goodell, saying the league’s thinking on sports gambling was “evolving,” a shift underscored in March when team owners approved the move of the Oakland Raiders to Las Vegas.Mr. Freeman, however, acknowledged that the N.C.A.A. remained the most concerted opponent to legalized sports gambling, noting that collegiate athletes are unpaid amateurs. He said one possible solution would be to prohibit betting on college football and basketball.The N.C.A.A. did not immediately comment on the decision by the Supreme Court to hear the case.While the court has offered no indication of how it might rule or why it was moving forward with the case, some industry advocates viewed the decision as a sign that the federal ban might be nearing its end.“Paspa’s days may be numbered,” said Daniel Wallach, a sports and gambling lawyer from Florida, who has tracked the case closely. "The court can overturn federal statute and provide a free and clear pathway for Congress to take this up. It’s the perfect time for the leagues, casino industry and Congress to come together, and I think it potentially opens sports betting up nationally by the 2018 N.F.L. season.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement■ Dave Roberts, the Dodgers manager, could not have sent a clearer signal that he intends to rely on his bullpen rather than stretch out his starting pitchers. Kershaw had thrown just 83 pitches through seven innings, but with the bottom of Houston’s order due up in the eighth, Roberts gave the ball to Brandon Morrow and then Kenley Jansen, letting them finish things off. If Kershaw’s leash is that short, Rich Hill and Yu Darvish should not expect anything different.In an on-field interview after the game, Kershaw said he made a case for himself to stay in the game after the seventh inning, but relented when Manager Dave Roberts said he preferred to make a change.“With our bullpen it doesn’t matter,” Kershaw said. “I told him I was good to go but how can you argue with what B-Mo and Kenley are doing back there?”■ The Astros struck out a Major League-low 1,087 times during the regular season — 484 fewer than the league-leading Milwaukee Brewers — but they seemed baffled by Kershaw. Six of Kershaw’s strikeouts came on called strike threes, with only one or two seeming to have benefited from a generous zone by Phil Cuzzi.Advertisement■ The Dodgers have often operated as a West Coast version of the Yankees, outspending the competition in hopes of regaining the team’s past glory, but all of the scoring in Game 1 came from players the team had essentially pulled off the scrap heap. Chris Taylor, who hit a solo homer in the first, came over from Seattle in a little-noticed trade for Zach Lee in 2016, and Justin Turner, whose two-run homer in the sixth put the team ahead to stay, signed a minor league deal with Los Angeles in 2014 after the Mets let him walk away.Advertisement■ Baseball has worked to improve pace over the last several years, and Game 1 could serve as the blueprint for speeding things up. In the two hour and 28 minute game — the shortest World Series game since 1992 — the teams combined to throw just 211 pitches. There were only two walks and nine hits, and beyond the three home runs nothing went for extra-bases. Perhaps most important to the pace, there was only one mid-inning pitching change. It helps to have two Cy Young Award-winning pitchers on the mound.—-—-Here’s how the Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series:The 2017 World Series is underway. The first pitch of Game 1 was thrown by Clayton Kershaw at 8:11 p.m. Eastern. The 94 mile-per-hour fastball was fouled off by George Springer.Kershaw finished Springer off in four pitches, striking him out on a slider that dove toward the center fielder’s feet. Alex Bregman flew out to left, and Jose Altuve grounded out to shortstop, giving Kershaw a perfect inning on just nine pitches. Seven of his nine pitches were strikes.Chris Taylor got the Dodgers on the board first, hitting Dallas Keuchel’s first pitch of the World Series well over the left field wall for a 1-0 lead.The breakout performer for the Dodgers, who has firmly established himself as the team’s leadoff batter, was sitting on a fastball and got one right down the middle.AdvertisementKeuchel settled down to strike out Justin Turner on seven pitches. Cody Bellinger was retired on a groundout to second, and Yasiel Puig grounded out to short to end the inning. For 10 of Keuchel’s 11 pitches he looked dominant, but he can’t get back that first offering to Taylor.Staked to a lead, Clayton Kershaw started off the inning by retiring Carlos Correa on a fly ball to center field. He caught Yulieski Gurriel sleeping on a 94 mile-per-hour fastball that sailed right through the zone for strike three. And then he induced a ground ball from Brian McCann which second baseman Logan Forsythe fielded in shallow right field before throwing him out to end the inning.Dallas Keuchel has continued to look strong since his first pitch of the game went for a home run. Kike Hernandez got things started in the half-inning by singling to left but Corey Seager, making his return to the team after missing the N.L.C.S. with back trouble, grounded into an easy double-play to erase the threat. Logan Forsythe was nearly out on a foul pop to right field that a diving Josh Reddick couldn’t handle, but on the next pitch he ended the inning by popping out to center.The Astros got their first hit of the game, but they were not able to do anything with the base runner.Clayton Kershaw started the inning by getting another called strike three, this time to Marwin Gonzalez, but Josh Reddick, the former Dodger, followed that up with a hard grounder to right that scooted just past Cody Bellinger’s glove for Houston’s first hit.Dallas Keuchel, who seemed lost trying to bunt Reddick over to second, ended up striking out on a foul bunt attempt, and then George Springer flailed at strike three to end the inning. Kershaw now has five strikeouts.AdvertisementThat’s 5 strikeouts in 10 batters for Kershaw: two on sliders, two on fastballs, and one on a curveball. Even more impressive considering that the Astros had the fewest strikeouts in the majors this season.The leadoff batter for the Dodgers reached for the third consecutive inning, as Austin Barnes hit a grounder through the infield into shallow left for a single. Clayton Kershaw, who has considerably more experience as a batter than Dallas Keuchel, showed him how the National League does things with a bunt that sent Barnes to second. But Chris Taylor, who started the game with a home run on the first pitch he saw, ended the inning by hitting a rope to shortstop Carlos Correa, who easily doubled Barnes off second base to end the inning.The game is tied. Alex Bregman took Clayton Kershaw’s third pitch of the inning over the wall in left-center for a home run, evening the score at 1-1. It was the seventh home run that Kershaw has allowed this postseason. Going back to the regular season, he has now allowed at least one homer in nine consecutive games. After allowing Bregman’s blast, Kershaw got consecutive called strike threes on Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa, with home plate umpire Phil Cuzzi giving him some help on a low slider that retired Altuve. Yulieski Gurriel swung helplessly at a slider to end the half-inning, and Kershaw is up to eight strikeouts.Bregman, at 23 years and 208 days, became the youngest American League player to hit a home run in the World Series since Manny Ramirez for Cleveland against Atlanta in 1995. Ramirez was 60 days younger.It was a remarkably quiet half-inning for the Dodgers. Justin Turner popped out to first, Cody Bellinger grounded out to first, and Yasiel Puig grounded out to short. Dallas Keuchel continues to induce soft contact to great effect.AdvertisementThis game has settled into a solid pitcher’s duel (minus the two solo homers) and it continued with Clayton Kershaw having yet another perfect inning. Brian McCann grounded right into the shift to start things off, and then Kershaw got some help from his defense when Justin Turner handled an awkward bounce on a grounder from Marwin Gonzalez, throwing out Gonzalez easily at first. Kershaw then ended the half-inning by freezing Josh Reddick with a 95 mile-per-hour fastball for strike three.Dallas Keuchel got his second strikeout of the game on a changeup to Kike Hernandez. Corey Seager followed that up by looping a single into shallow center, but Keuchel was able to get out of trouble quickly thanks to Logan Forsythe grounding into a double play to end the inning. Keuchel has been efficient all game, and has thrown just 55 pitches in five innings. Kershaw is at 66.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dallas Keuchel’s misadventures at the plate continued, with the American League hurler waving at one strike, and then watching two more before sitting down as Clayton Kershaw’s 10th strikeout victim. In a moral victory, he drew two balls before being retired.George Springer was strikeout No. 11 on a changeup that was nearly in the dirt, and Alex Bregman ended the half-inning with a groundout to short.Kershaw is the first Dodgers pitcher to have double-digit strikeouts in a World Series game since Sandy Koufax had 10 in Game 7 of the 1965 Series.Justin Turner hit a two-run home run to left field, giving the Dodgers a 3-1 lead.Dallas Keuchel needed just one pitch to get the first out of the half-inning, retiring Austin Barnes on a grounder to short. Clayton Kershaw also grounded out to short, but then Chris Taylor walked on five pitches. Turner made Keuchel pay for the base runner by crushing an 87 mile-per-hour cutter over the wall, with the crowd in Dodger Stadium exploding in cheers for the popular player.AdvertisementKeuchel was able to get out of the inning without any further trouble by striking out Cody Bellinger, but with the way Kershaw has been pitching, a two-run lead feels gigantic.I think Turner is going to tie Lopes’s record. He also has 26 career postseason R.B.I. for the Dodgers. That ties Duke Snider, who collected all of his in the World Series. For Turner, 14 of his postseason R.B.I. have come this year, establishing a new Dodgers single-season postseason record. And yes, the Mets let him go for nothing.Jose Altuve singled on a hard grounder to left but was not on the bases long, as Carlos Correa grounded into a force-out that erased him at second. The Dodgers nearly had a double-play to end the inning after Clayton Kershaw’s first pitch to Yulieski Gurriel was grounded softly to short, but Corey Seager fumbled the transfer and was lucky for Logan Forsythe to recover the ball at second for one out. The mistake — which will not go down as an error because a double play cannot be assumed — did not end up mattering as Brian McCann flew out to center to end the half-inning.This game continues to move right along as if it were 1978 — or 1988, for that matter. In fact, the last World Series game here was Game 2, ’88 between the Dodgers and the Oakland A’s. That one took 2 hours and 30 minutes as Orel Hershiser followed up Kirk Gibson’s famous home run in Game 1 by throwing a 3-hit shutout as the Dodgers won Game 2, 3-0. That is what made Gibson’s home run so important against the great Dennis Eckersley. The Dodgers had Hershiser coming back in Game 2.But that’s history. Here, the Astros are in jeopardy of losing their fourth straight road postseason game.An entertaining duel of former Cy Young Award winners will now move on to the bullpens.Dallas Keuchel got an easy out from Yasiel Puig, who hit a soft comebacker to the mound, and then retired Kike Hernandez on a grounder to short. But Corey Seager singled over Carlos Correa’s head into shallow center, making him 2 for 3 in his first game back from injury, and that ended Keuchel’s day.AdvertisementAstros Manager A.J. Hinch turned to Brad Peacock for the third out of the inning, but the reliever walked the first batter he faced, Logan Forsythe, before ending things by getting Austin Barnes to fly out to center.Keuchel’s final pitching line was six and two-thirds innings, six hits, three earned runs and three strikeouts. He allowed two home runs.As the Dodgers were batting, teammates were approaching Clayton Kershaw to congratulate him for his effort. He is expected to be relieved at the top of the 8th inning by Brandon Morrow, and if so his final line for the day is seven innings, three hits, one earned run and 11 strikeouts. He threw just 83 pitches, with the lone blemish on the day being Alex Bregman’s solo home run.Brandon Morrow came in for Clayton Kershaw and he kept the Dodgers rolling. Marwin Gonzalez flew out softly to left, Josh Reddick hit a ball deep into foul territory that was tracked down by Kike Hernandez, and pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran grounded out to first to end the half-inning.Chris Devenski relieved Brad Peacock to start the eighth and he struck out pinch-hitter Charlie Culberson on four pitches. Devenski got a second out with some help from his defense, as George Springer ranged far to his right to snare a fly ball from Chris Taylor, and Devenski ended the inning by striking out Justin Turner on a foul tip to the catcher.The Dodgers are three outs away from victory and will send out Kenley Jansen to try to close out the game.Meanwhile, former Met Justin Turner stands at the plate and many of the 53,253 fans here chant, “M.V.P., M.V.P.” What an transformation.The Dodgers believe deeply in their bullpen, and the confidence was on display when Clayton Kershaw was removed after seven innings having thrown just 83 pitches. Brandon Morrow pitched a perfect eighth and Kenley Jansen, the Dodgers’ closer, came on for the ninth and got things started by catching George Springer looking at a 92 mile-per-hour cutter in the upper part of the zone for strike three. Alex Bregman, who had provided Houston’s only run of the game with his solo homer off Kershaw in the fourth inning, flew out to center after a hard-fought eight-pitch at-bat. Then Jansen officially closed Houston out by retiring Jose Altuve on a fly ball to right.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementA group of former pro football players with cognitive impairment who took out tens of thousands of dollars in high-interest loans against their expected payments in the N.F.L. concussion settlement may not have to pay their lenders back.The federal judge overseeing the settlement, worth an estimated $1 billion, on Friday voided all contracts with lenders who were supposed to be repaid when the players receive cash awards for their severe neurological and cognitive problems.In some cases, though, the retired players’ cognitive conditions impairs their ability to fully understand the consequence of borrowing from these lenders, the judge, Anita B. Brody of the United States District Court in Philadelphia, said in her order.The ruling “is to protect the interests of class members by recognizing that class members receiving monetary awards are by definition cognitively impaired,” she wrote.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The judge instructed the administrator overseeing the settlement to not pay the lenders, in effect absolving the players of repaying the loans.“We are pleased with the court’s decision, which will protect the interests of class members from practices our investigation to date has uncovered to be predatory and potentially illegal,” Seeger said in a statement on Friday.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementHEERENVEEN, the Netherlands — Fans are melting away from all four sides of the Abe Lenstra Stadium as S.C. Heerenveen’s players amble around the edge of the field, taking in a cursory lap of honor after a hard-fought win against Sparta Rotterdam.Most of the squad is going through the motions: taking the shortest route possible, cutting the corners. They chat among themselves, occasionally lifting their heads to pick out friends and family in the crowd or to offer brief bursts of soft, mechanical applause.Only two players find themselves waylaid. One, Denzel Dumfries, has been voted man of the match. He scored the winning goal, and is now being held back by the need to balance the enormous bouquet of flowers he has received as his reward.The other, dallying behind the main group, has had a less productive evening. Martin Odegaard did not play badly; he had no shortage of energy, no drought of ideas. It was just one of those games where nothing quite worked. His touch was a little heavy, his passes just slightly off key.As he walks past the fans, though, there is a jolt of anticipation. A group of children summon him to the sideline. They stretch out their hands for him to touch, or proffer cellphones and scraps of paper for selfies and autographs. At this mid-table team, in this backwater town, Odegaard still carries with him an air of almost impossible glamour.AdvertisementAdvertisementHe was registered for Real’s B team, at the time under the oversight of Zinedine Zidane, but trained most often alongside Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale and the rest of the club’s senior-team stars. In May of that year, Odegaard made his debut for Real’s senior team. It made him the youngest player to play for the European champions, too.That buzz has long since abated. All of the noise that surrounded Odegaard for a year has disappeared. Soccer, impatient, has moved on to other prodigies. As Odegaard — still just 19, still baby-faced — dutifully signs autographs and poses for pictures on a bitterly cold night in this city in the north of the Netherlands, it is impossible not to think that he is a long way from Real Madrid, a long way from where he was meant to be, and to wonder whether moving to the biggest team in the world was too much, too soon.“It is impossible to answer that question,” Tore Pedersen, a former Norwegian international defender, said when asked whether Odegaard could have found a more direct route to his goals by choosing another of his suitors. Pedersen, now an agent, consulted on Odegaard’s moves to both Madrid and Heerenveen.Of far more significance — to Odegaard and to those concerned with his career — is that he is, now, in the right place to nurture his talent. In two years at Real Madrid, he made only one start for the first team, in the Copa del Rey. Carlo Ancelotti, the club’s former manager, dismissed his signing as a “PR stunt.”Zidane, who coached him on the B team, would not go that far, but he also did not draft Odegaard into the senior team when he was named manager. In January last year, Odegaard decided he needed an “intermediate step,” the chance to play competitive games somewhere.A loan to Heerenveen was deemed the best option. “It was a good chance to play,” Pedersen said. “The culture is similar in Holland to Norway, so it easier to settle, and Heerenveen has a good record with Scandinavian players.”AdvertisementIt would be a home away from home, the thinking ran, a more natural progression into the senior game. Morten Thorsby, one of several Norwegians on Heerenveen’s roster, contacted Odegaard to persuade him.The Netherlands, too, seemed to offer the right environment to allow him to flourish. “There is a little bit more space, a little bit more time,” said Stijn Schaars, Heerenveen’s captain, of the style of play in the top division, known as the Eredivisie. “It is good for young players to grow, to develop the game and the body, before moving on to other leagues.”That is not to say it was easy. Odegaard’s first day at the club brought more television cameras than Heerenveen’s manager, Jurgen Streppel, had ever seen. “It’s what you expect for a European Championship final,” he said. Despite the otherworldly vibe that Odegaard seemed to bring, though, he was still just a teenager, unaccustomed to the stresses and strains of elite soccer. By his own admission, he had “mixed feelings” about his first six months. He passed on a request to be interviewed for this article.Heerenveen kept its faith. Odegaard asked to be given the coveted No. 10 jersey last summer, and his wish was granted. Streppel promised him he was one of the four key players in his plans for this season, but asked that he try to be more decisive in games.“He has to be able to make a difference in Holland in game after game,” Streppel told the Norwegian newspaper VG. “Only that will be good enough if he is to succeed in a really top team.”This season has brought an improvement. Odegaard has scored just one Eredivisie goal in 15 league appearances, and created only one other, but nobody at Heerenveen plays more key passes per game. He is learning, too, to be more vocal. “He is not a guy with a big mouth,” Schaars said. “But he is a smart player. Smart players have more vision than normal players, so if you see something, say it.”That is why Odegaard is here: to mature, on the field and off it. He has passed his driving test — when he first arrived, the club issued him a bicycle to help him get around — and he now lives on his own, after his father, who had lived with him for six months, returned to Norway. He intends to go back to the Bernabéu as a man, rather than a boy.That has always been the aim: to win a place at Real Madrid. He has not forgotten why he is here, and his parent club has not forgotten him, either. Real Madrid is in regular contact with Odegaard, his father and Heerenveen, to monitor his progress. Video of his games is regularly sent back to Madrid, and every so often a scout comes to see him in the flesh.AdvertisementAgainst Sparta, an observer would not have seen a player who looks ready to displace Ronaldo, or Isco, or any of the other superstars on Real’s books. He may have to go out on loan again before he can make that leap; that decision, Pedersen said, will be made in the summer. But as he was swarmed by fans, they would have seen a boy who still shines, even after three years in the shadows.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWASHINGTON — A few minutes before kickoff on Oct. 7 at Howard University’s Greene Stadium — about two miles from the White House — the public address announcer said, “We ask that you please rise as we honor the United States of America.” At the 50-yard-line, four members of the Air Force R.O.T.C. presented the colors.But when the university’s “Showtime” marching band played “The Star-Spangled Banner,” Howard’s cheerleaders, who were lined up at one end zone, did not heed the request. They were kneeling.With a few exceptions, the protests have not spread to the college game, which generally does not have players on the sidelines during the anthem. Since early last season, however, Howard’s cheerleaders have performed their own protest.AdvertisementAdvertisementThe “Lift Every Voice” tradition at Howard games goes back at least to the 1980s, according to Howard’s former sports information director, Edward Hill Jr. And the song’s informal stature as the black national anthem predates the codification of “The Star-Spangled Banner” as the national anthem in 1931, said Imani Perry, a Princeton professor whose book on “Lift Every Voice” is due out next year.During “Lift Every Voice,” which last Saturday was played immediately before the national anthem, the Howard cheerleaders, the band’s dancers and some spectators in the crowd of several hundred raised their arms in the Black Power salute. Then, with a flourish, the cheerleaders, one at a time down the line, switched from raised fist to bent knee, like a row of falling dominoes.“It’s not surprising that when there’s an anthem protest, you see H.B.C.U.s at the forefront of the resistance, because that’s where we’ve always been,” said Marc Lamont Hill, a Temple University professor who studies African-American culture, referring to historically black colleges and universities.“H.B.C.U.s are a space of nurture,” he added, “where you can be surrounded by black excellence, black genius, and black excellence and brilliance can become normalized. And also black resistance can become normalized.”Camille Washington, the mother of a Howard player, was in the stands wearing Kaepernick’s 49ers jersey. For this game, she said, she felt she could wear neither team’s apparel given that she had attended North Carolina Central University, Howard’s opponent. (North Carolina Central won, 13-7.) But her jersey was also a tribute, she said, to Kaepernick’s protest.Advertisement“I’m a teacher,” Washington said, “and I want our kids to know they have a voice, and one way to do that is protesting in a way that brings light to what they believe in.”As at many H.B.C.U.s, Howard’s cheerleading squad rivals the football team in visibility and in emphasis on ritual. A Howard cheerleader from decades ago is likely to remember exactly how to perform the signature “It Takes a B” cheer. The squad’s “stomp and shake” style, said Alex Jones, Stallworth’s fellow captain, makes it distinct from most others.“We do add an additional flavor, a little more spice into our cheers and our dances that make it pop just a little bit more,” Jones said, adding that “being in that black space opens it up.”Demarco Brooks, who became the cheerleaders’ coach this season, said that he opposed kneeling — “it wouldn’t be my first choice” — but that he was respectful of their rights. He insisted that each cheerleader decide for herself whether to kneel. The captains said it would have been fine had anyone declined, but no one did.And the squad is intent on sticking to this ritual.“Injustice is still continuing,” Stallworth said. “So we’re going to continue to kneel until we see a change.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of Kennesaw State cheerleaders who knelt during the anthem. It was five, not three.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementI knew the tickets would be steep. Thanks to what’s known as dynamic pricing, in which costs shift constantly to match demand, top ticket prices for hit shows on Broadway have hit previously unheard-of levels. Annual Broadway ticket sales reached a record $1.45 billion for the just-ended season.When I went online Wednesday, the top price for that night’s performance of “Hello, Dolly!” at several ticket resellers was $1,450, give or take a few dollars. (It was sold out both on Telecharge and at the Shubert Theater box office.)AdvertisementAs premium ticket prices have soared, many buyers have responded with outrage, accusing theater owners of price gouging and bemoaning the emergence of Broadway as one more exclusive preserve for the ultrarich. Both themes were prominent in reader comments on the Times article.AdvertisementBut guess what? There was also one “Hello, Dolly!” ticket for $194 on Wednesday evening available from an online reseller, albeit for a balcony seat. And there were more than a dozen seats at prices well below $750.And if you’re willing to forgo the potentially once-in-a-lifetime experience of seeing Bette Midler as Dolly Levi, TodayTix, a relatively new purveyor, was offering seats for future performances starring the critically lauded Donna Murphy — for $39.The venerable TKTS booth in Times Square had 22 Broadway shows on offer for Wednesday evening, nearly all at 50 percent off.“People have been whipped into a frenzy by the top prices,” said Thomas Schumacher, president of the Disney Theatrical Group, producer of the current, dynamically priced hit musicals “The Lion King” and “Aladdin.” “If you’re a regular person who wants to see a Broadway show tonight, you can. There are tickets for $29. You may be priced out of the best seats at the hottest shows, but the same is true of a deluxe suite at the St. Regis or a restaurant on New Year’s Day.”Even at hit shows, relatively few seats sell at headline-making prices. Mr. Schumacher noted that the average price of a ticket for “Aladdin,” one of the five top-grossing shows on Broadway, was $112 last year.Average Broadway ticket prices last season rose to $109 from the prior season’s $103, a 5.8 percent increase. That’s more than the rate of inflation but still not exorbitant considering the disproportionate impact of a few megahits like “Hamilton.” (The higher prices compensated for — or perhaps contributed to — a decline in the number of tickets sold.)As more transactions shift to the internet, consumers will have to get used to a world in which dynamic pricing is increasingly the norm. They’ve pretty much accepted it for airline fares; airlines pioneered the concept years ago. It has since spread to hotel rooms, sporting events, concerts and designer clothing — and is likely to be used for just about any highly differentiated product where demand may at times far exceed supply.“At the most basic level, all pricing is about allocating scarce resources,” said Robert Phillips, the head of marketplace optimization sciences at Uber, the car service that has pioneered surge pricing in local transportation. Surge pricing is another form of dynamic pricing. (Mr. Phillips previously headed Columbia University’s Center for Pricing and Revenue Management.)Advertisement“I’ve worked in theater, concerts and sports,” he said, “and they all have a similar problem: For extreme hits, demand at what people would consider a reasonable price far exceeds supply.”From an economics perspective, “this is simply a rationing problem,” he added. “If you keep prices low, people will buy tickets and resell them on the secondary market. Someone is going to pay a market-clearing price, no matter how high. The only question is who should get the money: the investors and performers and creators, or a speculator who managed to snap up the tickets the moment the box office opened?”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.However creative the product, says Howard Sherman, director of the Arts Integrity Initiative for the New School College of Performing Arts, Broadway is not immune from the forces of any marketplace.“As somebody who believes theater and live performing arts are an incredibly important part of our society, I’d love to be able to say that ticket prices should stay artificially low,” said Mr. Sherman, who is also a United States theater columnist for the British weekly The Stage. “But that denies the reality of what commercial theater is. Shows have a responsibility to return money to the people who invested in them and to the people who created the show.”But “it was only because the price was so high that I was able to buy tickets at all on such short notice,” he added. “If legal restrictions or moral sanctions had forced prices to remain close to face value, it is likely that no tickets would have been available by the time my family got around to planning its trip to the city.”When I reached him this week, Mr. Mankiw said he thought the backlash to high theater prices reflected a broader anticapitalist bias. “People say they believe in capitalism, but when prices rise to clear markets, they say it’s unfair,” he said. “I have some sympathy for that when you’re talking about fundamental rights, like perhaps health care. But scarce tickets to ‘Hamilton’?”I asked him if “Hamilton” tickets had been worth the cost. “Every penny,” Mr. Mankiw said. “It was fantastic, one of the best things I’ve ever seen.”AdvertisementJust as smart travelers know how to find bargain airline seats, there are some simple ways ticket buyers can use dynamic pricing to their advantage, since it yields bargains along with premium prices. Weekday shows, and especially Wednesday matinees, are generally in far less demand than weekend shows. January and September are the best months for cheap seats. Prices are usually lower before a show officially opens and critics weigh in (as long as the reviews are positive).And as I discovered, it helps to be flexible. While I started out this week looking for “Hello, Dolly!” tickets, I ended up at “Groundhog Day,” a new show with seven Tony nominations, including best musical and best actor, for a small fraction of the price of seeing Bette Midler. Seats for “Groundhog Day” were available at TKTS for half-price and online for $50. (And I loved it.)Dynamic pricing and super-premium prices may be relatively new, but the scarcity of tickets for hit shows has a long tradition. Mr. Schumacher cited “My Fair Lady,” the “Hamilton” of the 1955-56 Broadway season. As Broadway lore has it, a man in the audience turned to his neighbor, an older woman, and asked why the fifth-row center seat next to her was empty.“My husband died,” she replied.“Didn’t anyone else want to come?” he asked.“No,” she answered. “They’re all at the funeral.”An earlier version of this column misidentified a service through which “Hello, Dolly!” tickets are sold online. It is Telecharge, not Ticketmaster. It also referred incorrectly to the role of Howard Sherman with the British weekly The Stage. He is a columnist, not a critic.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementCLEVELAND — The final out nestled in the glove of the visiting first baseman, who raised both arms to the air in triumph. The series was over, and his team had reached new heights. He vowed to keep the ball as a symbol of the achievement.That scene played out last fall in Cleveland, with Anthony Rizzo of the Chicago Cubs, who ultimately presented the ball to the owner Tom Ricketts at a championship parade with millions of revelers. Before that, though, it had also happened in Toronto, with Carlos Santana of the Indians. He caught the foul pop that clinched the Indians’ first American League pennant in 19 years. It signified the possibility of the franchise’s first World Series title in decades.The Indians, of course, came up one run short, losing in the 10th inning of Game 7 of the World Series. Santana keeps his last-out ball at his home here, so his family can see it. He stores his A.L. championship ring in a safe.“I don’t want that — I want the big one, like champions,” Santana said on Friday, by his locker at Progressive Field. “I felt last year like a champion, because we were fighting till the last out. Last year was very special, but the team this year is much better.”AdvertisementThe Indians improved by eight games over last season, finishing 102-60 to earn home-field advantage through the American League Championship Series. It was only the third 100-win season in franchise history, after 1954 and 1995, the bookend years of a four-decade stretch without a postseason appearance.AdvertisementThe Indians’ pursuit will not grip the sports world the way the Cubs’ did. Sixty-nine years is a long time, but it is hardly a century of pain. Players know it has been a while, but the team’s tortured history is more of a vague concept than a burden. They do not expect it to resonate nationally.Eighty years, 69 years — what’s another decade or so when the Indians have waited this long? The fans, at least for now, seem upbeat. While the Indians still ranked near the bottom in A.L. attendance, they sold more than two million tickets for the first time in nine years. And, N.F.L. misery notwithstanding, the Cavaliers’ 2016 N.B.A. title may have changed the sports outlook around town.“This is my 29th year, and this is the only community I’ve ever known that had phrases to describe every failed championship,” said Tom Hamilton, the Indians’ longtime broadcaster. “You know: the Drive, the Fumble, the Shot, the Ninth Inning with Jose Mesa and the Marlins. It almost seemed like people perpetuated that misery. I don’t want to say they enjoyed it, but it was always a badge of honor. The Cavs eliminated some of that.”The Indians did their part, too. The seventh game against the Cubs will be remembered as a classic, but for most of the night it wasn’t. The Indians never led, and they were trailing, 6-3, against Aroldis Chapman in the bottom of the eighth inning. Had they lost by that score, Hamilton said, the sting of botching a three-games-to-one lead might have felt worse.After a lackluster first half, the Indians have soared through the last two and a half months. They finished the season on a 32-4 tear, and trailed for only eight innings of their A.L.-record 22-game winning streak from Aug. 24 through Sept. 14. They outscored opponents by 254 runs for the season, the best run differential in the majors and the franchise high since that charmed summer of 1948.Advertisement“The length of the lineup and the depth of the team was a bit eye-opening to me,” said right fielder Jay Bruce, who arrived from the Mets in an early August trade. “It’s like, wow, this isn’t just the nine guys on the field, there’s like 15 other guys who are quality and solid. That was the biggest thing during the streak. Some of our best players were hurt, and it was just like, next man up.”After Bartolo Colon anchored three playoff rotations, the Indians traded him to Montreal in 2002 for a package including a young Cliff Lee. Seven years later, after Lee had won a Cy Young Award, they dealt him to Philadelphia for a prospect haul that brought Carlos Carrasco, who was 18-6 with a 3.29 earned run average this season. Other high-impact players — Santana, Corey Kluber, Trevor Bauer, Michael Brantley — have come in similar deals.Last month, on a West Coast trip, the president of baseball operations, Chris Antonetti, left the major league team for a four-day visit to the instructional league in Arizona. He huddled with lieutenants for workshops on how to improve the organization, and visited prospects on the bottom rung of the minor league ladder.“It’s a really important group to spend time with,” said Antonetti, who estimated that about 70 percent of the team’s innings pitched and plate appearances came from players who had spent time in the Cleveland farm system.“We continue to push ourselves and never be complacent,” Antonetti said. “We realize how difficult it is to succeed at the major league level and win, and how fragile success can be, so we have to pay constant attention to it. And sometimes, even with those best efforts, you fall short.”When they fell short last year, the Indians did something unusual: They spent big, signing Edwin Encarnacion to a three-year, $60 million free-agent contract, the richest in team history. For players still processing the heartbreak of Game 7, the deal was a jolt that reinforced the urgency of the moment.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Encarnacion, a former Blue Jay, has helped them do it by leading the team in homers (38) and R.B.I. (107). Jose Ramirez and Lindor combined for a staggering 172 extra-base hits, and only the Houston Astros had a better on-base plus slugging percentage than Cleveland’s .788.Advertisement“I was fortunate to get back when I did, because I was able to pitch back-to-back and go multiple innings and check those boxes,” Miller said. “I’ve gotten a lot stronger, and my symptoms are next to nothing. I feel like I can go out there and do whatever I need. At the same time, we’re a deeper bullpen.”The presence of Carrasco, who did not pitch last postseason after a line drive broke his hand, also makes the rotation deeper. And besides the ankle problems of Brantley — who also missed the last postseason, with shoulder trouble — the only cause for concern may be that Bauer’s drone has gone missing.“I have to build a new one tonight,” Bauer said on Friday, after his 17th victory. “I have all my supplies. Maybe I’ll post a video so everyone can watch.”“That bullpen game was so much fun, because everybody’s involved,” Manager Terry Francona said. “I loved it.”The Indians were on the road that night, already leading the series and facing a thunderous Blue Jays lineup. That game, more than any other, highlighted just how unpredictable the postseason can be. Sometimes bad breaks can be fun.Now the Indians are the A.L.’s best team, perhaps the best in baseball, with expectations to match. The best team does not always win it all — and for almost seven decades, the Indians have not, either. But they will eagerly try again.“Really, nobody else can draw off what we went through,” Miller said. “Hopefully, we can use that fuel and get one more win.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementHere is our not-so-happy sports and politics recap, and all who complain about the mixture of the two are advised to register their complaints with the White House switchboard.Before a vastly white audience — and race appears the inescapable subtext here — he seized on the athletes, nearly all of them black, who have protested police brutality by silently holding a fist aloft or taking a knee on the sidelines of football games. He jutted his chin, squinted and curled his lips.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president did his faux “you’re fired” hand gesture — the one from that forgettable television show of his — and the audience roared. On Saturday morning, as an encore, President Trump woke up and declared on Twitter that he would not invite Steph Curry, that whirling dervish star of the Golden State Warriors, to the White House.AdvertisementThis is a barely recognizable president. It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes. Thank God for the latter.AdvertisementJust as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.The N.B.A. point guard Chris Paul:To which LeBron James added his own message:And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:It's a shame and disgrace when you have the President of the US calling citizens of the country sons of a bitches.Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L. and N.B.A. player unions have followed suit.But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as you’ll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday. (Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L. had become insufficiently violent.)“Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities,” Goodell said in a statement.It’s not clear how this plays with Goodell’s masters in N.F.L. ownership. They donated many millions to Trump’s presidential campaign; the New England Patriots’ owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots’ coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.And now Kaepernick’s once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.Let me pause here. For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them. College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A. in court. N.F.L. players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A. stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.They have been active citizens, and that is stirring. This cuts both ways. If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nation’s finest free speech traditions.AdvertisementIt’s striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head. He taunted N.F.L. owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.“They’ll be the most popular person in this country,” Trump said, “because that’s a total disrespect of our heritage, that’s a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.”The president’s invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions. I’ll recruit my departed father into this scrum. Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber. Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.What’s notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded. James appeared in a video for Michael Bloomberg’s global forum. “I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now,” he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment. President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.“By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change,” he said, “when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.”The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him. But notice how the athletes’ eyes are so wide open.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementMOON, Pa. — When the Pittsburgh Steelers begin their march to a potential seventh Super Bowl championship on Sunday afternoon, Garrett Webster will be delivering pizza from his 14-year-old Honda Pilot.This might surprise fans and his customers, but Mr. Webster, the 33-year-old son of Mike Webster, the stalwart center of the Steelers’ dynasty of the 1970s, has to make ends meet. Playoff game days are especially busy.Mike Webster, who died in 2002, was the first N.F.L. player to receive a diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the degenerative brain disease linked to repeated head hits. His central role on those great Steelers teams, combined with his tragic decline, landmark diagnosis and long fight for disability benefits, led to hundreds of cases filed by retired N.F.L. players who said the league had hid from them the dangers of playing football.Yet 15 years after his death, and two years after the courts cleared the way for a settlement that would pay an estimated $1 billion to retired players, Webster’s survivors continue to struggle financially.The N.F.L. insisted on a provision in the settlement that could prevent players who died before 2006 from receiving compensation, which can be as much as $5 million. The Websters have filed a claim, anyway, in an attempt to have his case included.Advertisement“Mike opened up Pandora’s box,” Pam Webster, 66, the football player’s ex-wife, said of his C.T.E. diagnosis, which has become an existential crisis for the N.F.L. because it has led to the barrage of lawsuits and to parents rethinking their children’s participation in football. “There’s no reason Mike shouldn’t be included.”AdvertisementWebster’s career lasted from 1974 to 1990, ending just before the advent of free agency and the massive increase in N.F.L. salaries it sparked. After Webster retired, his declining health, escalating medical bills, long slide into dementia and years of wandering the country took a toll on Garrett Webster, his three siblings and their mother, Pam.She exhausted her savings long ago. She lives off credit cards, Social Security and an annuity. Unable to afford a home, she has spent the past five years staying with friends and family. Careful not to overstay her welcome, she traveled during one six-week stretch to Pittsburgh, the West Coast, Minnesota, Wisconsin and then back to Pittsburgh, where she stays with Garrett.Through it all, she and her four children have continued a fight to receive a multimillion-dollar award from the N.F.L.’s concussion settlement with retired players.As a part of the settlement, the N.F.L. agreed to make compensation payments that will stretch into the millions to retired players with severe cognitive and neurological problems. On paper, at least, the Websters should receive nearly $3 million based on his age at the time of the diagnosis, 50, and the number of years he played in the N.F.L., 17. The criteria are an attempt to gauge how long players were exposed to head trauma and how directly that exposure could be linked to health problems: Younger players are paid more on the presumption that football, not old age, caused their problems.To the Websters’ dismay, they found out after the settlement agreement was announced that Iron Mike, as he was known in Pittsburgh, was not automatically part of it. That’s because the deal excludes players who died before Jan. 1, 2006.The N.F.L. pushed for a cutoff date to prevent a stream of families from filing claims for long-deceased fathers and husbands. The plaintiffs’ lawyers ultimately agreed on 2006, which allowed more families to file claims, but was far enough back that it excluded the families of players who died before then from bringing wrongful-death and other suits against the league.The Websters and other families in their position still have a glimmer of hope. The federal judge in the case, Anita B. Brody, left open a legal window for families of players who died before 2006 that their lawyers hope to utilize. Jason Luckasevic, the lawyer for the Websters, needs to show that the family still has the right to file a legal case against the league under their state’s statute of limitations.AdvertisementChristopher Seeger, a co-lead counsel for the retired players who sued the league, declined to be interviewed on the phone. In an email, he explained that some players objected to the 2006 cutoff date, but without a settlement that at least captured players dating to 2006, many more would face the same stringent limitations as the Websters.The 2006 cutoff date “is the result of hard-fought negotiations between the parties,” he wrote in court filings in 2015. “Had the plaintiffs not secured this provision, claimants on behalf of all deceased class members would have had to show that their claims were timely.”The exclusion applies to players who died from all diseases covered by the settlement, including A.L.S. and Parkinson’s disease. But it is a particularly crushing blow to the Websters and to the families of two other former Steelers, Terry Long and Justin Strzelczyk, who also died before 2006 and received the same posthumous diagnosis Mike Webster did. They spent many years listening to league officials question any connection between playing football and a degenerative brain condition, before 2016, when the N.F.L. grudgingly acknowledged a link between football and the disease.“If you asked the 20,000 retirees who are part of the class, they would say Mike Webster should be paid first,” Mr. Luckasevic said.The league and the administrator for the settlement say that despite early hiccups and the need to weed out fraudulent claims, the process is operating as intended. More than $150 million has been awarded and many hundreds of other claims are being evaluated.“We are pleased the concussion settlement is proceeding as the parties and the court intended,” Brian McCarthy, an N.F.L. spokesman, said.“We want to create a process where we can decide on these issues once and for all,” Ms. Verrier said.AdvertisementGarrett Webster, though, is losing his patience.“It’s insane that we haven’t been paid because every suit uses my dad in their case,” he said. Mr. Webster, who wore a Steelers sweatshirt to a sandwich shop here on a recent afternoon, sat near pictures of his father and other Steelers players on the walls. “If Mike Webster doesn’t happen, this case doesn’t happen,” he added.Sitting in a booth next to her son, picking at a salad, Pam Webster said she and her children were used to delays. Starting in the late-1990s, Mike Webster and his lawyers spent years fighting for full disability benefits. After he died, a court finally ruled against the league’s disability board. That provided a hollow victory. The Websters are also seeking a so-called Legacy Benefit payment that the N.F.L. pays to families of deceased players. That is not likely to amount to more than a few thousand dollars per month.An award in the concussion settlement could provide the Websters with a financial shot in the arm when they really need it. While Pam Webster travels from home to home, Garrett Webster has remained in Pittsburgh, where he lived with his father in his final years.Both Webster daughters, Brooke, 41, and Hillie, 30, have been treated for substance abuse. Pam Webster said those problems were a result of the stress of seeing their father’s life disintegrate after his N.F.L. career. Her other son, Colin, 38, was in the military. He has kept football at arm’s length for years. “This isn’t the way it was supposed to end,” Pam Webster said.After Mike Webster retired in 1990, he moved his family to Wisconsin, where he and Pam grew up. But after some poor financial decisions they lost their house. Webster occasionally made money when his friend Sunny Jani found him gigs signing autographs.To help pay the bills, Pam Webster went to work at a restaurant, then became a personal care assistant after she found out the family had lost their health insurance. Mike Webster drifted through Pittsburgh, Wisconsin and places in between. Their marriage fell apart.The family’s relationship with the Steelers is complicated. At times, the team helped its former player and his family. At other times, especially after his behavior became unpredictable, the organization kept its distance. In November, the team invited Pam and Garrett Webster to a ceremony honoring team legends during a home game. It was the first time she attended a game since 2002, when the Steelers honored her husband after his death.They now proudly show off cellphone pictures of the steel football they received that day. They are careful to say they do not resent the Steelers. They want only what they believe the league owes them. Through a spokesman, the Steelers declined to comment on the settlement claim.“We don’t hate football, we just are upset about Mike,” Pam Webster said. But she added: “Every time we step forward, it’s three steps back. One minute he’s remembered, and one minute he’s forgotten.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOBERSTDORF, Germany — The next effort to defuse the nuclear brinksmanship over North Korea’s missile and bomb testing may come, not from diplomats, but from a pair of North Korean figure skaters who perform to music by the Beatles.An obscure competition on Thursday and Friday here in Bavaria has gained geopolitical urgency as the pairs team of Ryom Tae-ok and Kim Ju-sik seek to become the first North Korean athletes to qualify for the 2018 Winter Olympics in February in Pyeongchang, South Korea.“We’re aware there is a lot of interest,” Kim Hyon-son, who coaches the pair, said after a training session on Wednesday, speaking briefly through an interpreter.Despite the nuclear tests, missile launches and other saber-rattling threats, North Korea has signaled recently that it would consider participating in the Games. Its four-person skating delegation here appears somewhat guarded but approachable and friendly.And no one would be more relieved by a North Korean triumph of sequins and Salchows this week than the International Olympic Committee and South Korean officials. They have stated adamantly and repeatedly a desire to have North Korea, one of the world’s most isolated countries, compete in what is being promoted as the Games of Peace.While the Olympics have been tainted by staggering costs and endemic corruption, they still strive for the ideal that sport can bring people together even as governments remain hostile and apart.At the United Nations last week, Moon Jae-in, the president of South Korea, called North Korea’s aggressive behavior “extremely deplorable.” But he has promoted diplomacy with the North and opposes military action. Mr. Moon struck a cautiously hopeful tone at a ceremony to unveil the design of the 2018 Olympic medals at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.South Korea would embark on a “difficult but meaningful challenge” in seeking to have a tranquil Games with North Korea participating, he said in a speech.If North Korean athletes fail to qualify, Olympic officials have said they will consider wild-card entries for North Korean athletes to encourage the country to participate. A plan to have a delegation of North Korean athletes and officials march through the demilitarized zone to the Games as a peace gesture remains under consideration.“Tensions are high now, but because of that, peace is all the more needed,” Mr. Moon said. “If the two Koreas come together at this point in time, it will become a great opportunity to send a message of reconciliation and peace to the world.”He added, “I do not think it is impossible.”Chang Ung, an I.O.C. delegate from North Korea, told the Olympic committee’s online television channel in mid-September: “I am quite sure that politics is one thing and Olympics is another thing. So I don’t see any big problem for the Pyeongchang Olympics.”The easiest route is for athletes from North Korea to qualify.From mid-June through mid-August, the North Korean pair of Ms. Ryom, 18, and Mr. Kim, 25, trained in Montreal, refining their attempt to claim one of five Olympic spots available here at this week’s Nebelhorn Trophy competition.The skaters, their coach and a North Korean skating official spoke frequently about the Olympics, said Bruno Marcotte, a prominent French Canadian coach who worked with the pair.“All the time they would ask me: ‘Do you think we have a chance to qualify? Are we good enough? What do we need to qualify?’” Mr. Marcotte said of the pair, who aspire to become one of the world’s top 10 teams.“They didn’t want to talk about politics,” said Mr. Marcotte, who is also here assisting the North Koreans. “It was all about sport and being the first ones in the Olympics and breaking barriers and doing their best.”It is a widely held feeling among South Korean politicians and Olympic officials, as well as some international athletes, that the Games would be safer with North Korea’s participation, lessening security concerns and perhaps spurring slow ticket sales.In that view, Kim Jong-un, the unpredictable North Korean leader, would be less likely to act provocatively if athletes from his country were competing in the Olympics, alongside those of China, North Korea’s benefactor.“It’s kind of an insurance policy to have them there,” said Ted Ligety, a two-time gold medalist in Alpine skiing from the United States.Of course, there is no way to predict what the political situation will be on the Korean Peninsula in four months, when the Olympics take place about 40 miles from the demilitarized zone that separates North and South.And there is no guarantee that North Korea will participate. It is not a winter sports power and did not compete at the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia. It also boycotted the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, the South Korean capital.A general wariness seems to be encroaching on these Games. France has said its Olympic team will not travel to South Korea if its safety cannot be guaranteed.Still, Thomas Bach, the president of the I.O.C., has said there is “so far not even a hint” that security concerns related to North Korea threaten the Games. In any case, officials say it is too late to move the Olympics.“There is no Plan B,” said Anita DeFrantz, a vice president of the I.O.C. from the United States.Mr. Chang, the I.O.C. delegate from North Korea, has said its athletes will also attempt to qualify for the Games in short-track speedskating and Nordic skiing, which includes cross-country events. According to Reuters, North Korea has formally complained that international sanctions have interfered with its ability to purchase skiing equipment needed for training.In April, North Korea sent its women’s hockey team to play in South Korea. In June, it sent a taekwondo team. That month, South Korea’s sports minister mentioned the possibility of fielding a combined hockey team in the Olympics and permitting North Korea to host an Alpine skiing event.Those prospects seem unlikely now, South Korean Olympic and government officials said last week in New York.“North Korea is my biggest worry,” Choi Moon-soon, the governor of Gangwon Province in South Korea, where the 2018 Olympics will take place, said in a recent interview. “It’s not because of North Korea making an impact on the Olympics, it’s that if North Korea can participate, then it will make a great contribution for our goal of hosting a Peace Olympics, and it will be a great selling point.”If North Korea does compete, perhaps its most visible — and only — athletes will be Ms. Ryom and Mr. Kim. They finished 15th at the 2017 world figure skating championships in March with a style influenced by classic Russian efficiency and precise placement of the arms and head.Dressed in silver and black costumes at training on Wednesday, the pair skated to an instrumental version of the Beatles’ “A Day in the Life,” as performed by Jeff Beck, which will provide a musical backdrop for Thursday’s opening performance.The issue can be culturally sensitive. At the world championships, the North Koreans ended a brief interview with The Associated Press when asked how they had chosen the Beatles’ music.On Wednesday, Ms. Ryom and her partner, Mr. Kim, appeared smiling though slightly nervous during practice. (“Trying to be too much,” Mr. Marcotte said.) Still, they received polite applause from the four dozen or so people who watched them train at the Eissportzentrum in this Alpine village with bell cows in the pastures and snow dusting the highest peaks.It is not uncommon for pairs skaters to have an artistically stressed relationship, and as Mr. Marcotte put it, a coach can sometimes be more of a marriage counselor. But the North Koreans remained unfailingly upbeat during their summer training, he said. And they even made kimchi, a staple dish, for a South Korean pair that he also trained.“I think there is a will for friendship, a will for peace,” Mr. Marcotte said of the skaters. “They were so driven and so positive. I didn’t expect that. They were sponges. They wanted to learn so badly.”Ms. Ryom and Mr. Kim will be under enormous scrutiny and pressure this week to qualify for the Olympics. But they also appear confident, Mr. Marcotte said.Ri Chol-un, an official with the North Korean figure skating association, said the pair might even speak to reporters on Friday after the pairs competition ends.“As long as it’s about figure skating,” he said.Ken Belson contributed reporting from Chuncheon, South Korea.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS