AdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingThe standout receiver Antonio Callaway and running back Jordan Scarlett were among nine Florida players facing felony fraud charges on Monday on accusations that they transferred money from a stolen credit card to their campus bookstore accounts and used it to buy electronics.Asked whether the potential charges would affect the players’ status with the team, Coach Jim McElwain said, “You’re darn right.” All of the players were suspended from the team but remained enrolled at the university.Defensive lineman Jordan Smith was facing five charges, and offensive lineman Kadeem Telfort was facing 30, according to university police reports.Callaway, Scarlett and five other players — defensive lineman Keivonnis Davis, defensive lineman Richerd Desir-Jones, linebacker James Houston, linebacker Ventrell Miller and receiver Rick Wells — made one charge each with the stolen card number, ranging in value from $500 to $2,000, the authorities said.Arizona’s Carson Palmer completed 29 of 48 passes for 325 yards, and the host Cardinals outgained the Cowboys, 332 yards to 273, but Dak Prescott and Dallas used an efficient ground game to grind out a 28-17 victory.Dallas’s Ezekiel Elliott scored on an 8-yard run with less than five minutes remaining for his first touchdown of the season. Palmer became the fourth N.F.L. quarterback to throw 100 touchdown passes for more than one team. (NYT)Coach Doug Pederson confirmed the injuries Monday, saying it was a “devastating” loss. Sproles, 34, has nine returns for touchdowns, including seven on punts.Michael Taylor homered, A. J. Cole (3-5) allowed one run while pitching into the sixth inning, and the Washington Nationals beat the Phillies, 3-1, in Philadelphia. Washington, the National League East champion, extended its franchise record with a 50th road win.Flulike symptoms prevented the five-time All-Star Bryce Harper, out since Aug. 12 with a hyperextended knee, from making his anticipated return to the Nationals’ lineup.Alexandre Lacazette scored both goals as host Arsenal defeated West Bromwich Albion, 2-0, in the Premier League, prolonging a September comeback.Arsenal lost two of its first three matches but collected 7 of a possible 9 points this month on top of victories in the Europa League and the League Cup.West Brom midfielder Gareth Barry, 36, made a record 633rd Premier League appearance in the game, passing the mark set by the former Manchester United winger Ryan Giggs.Agnelli was accused of authorizing the sale of season passes and other tickets and has acknowledged meeting with Rocco Dominello, an “ultra” fan linked to the Calabrian ‘Ndrangheta crime mob who has since been sentenced to nearly eight years in prison for scalping.But Agnelli said the meetings had occurred only with large numbers of other fans at celebratory occasions and that the club had never intended to engage in illegal activity.Thunder guard Russell Westbrook, who has yet to sign a contract extension, said that Oklahoma City was where he wanted to be and that he was “happy” about the off-season additions of Carmelo Anthony, who formally completed his move to the team on Monday, and Paul George.Westbrook said he had not signed, a situation that has tempered some of the excitement around the team, because of the birth of his son and a busy travel schedule. He has until Oct. 16 to sign a contract that would be worth more than $200 million.Sloane Stephens, the United States Open champion, and Madison Keys, the runner-up, were knocked out in the first round of the Wuhan Open in China.In their first matches since the final at Flushing Meadows, the 17th-ranked Stephens lost to Wang Qiang of China, 6-2, 6-2, while the 12th-ranked Keys was beaten by her fellow American Varvara Lepchenko, 6-2, 7-6 (4).Thomas Greiss stopped all 25 shots in the Islanders’ 3-0 victory over a visiting Devils split-squad team. Brock Nelson and Mathew Barzal scored first-period goals for the Islanders, and Johnny Boychuk added an empty-netter.Keith Kinkaid played the entire game in goal for the Devils and made 42 saves.In Summerside, Prince Edward Island, the remaining Devils defeated the Ottawa Senators, 8-1, in the Hockeyville Canada game. Pavel Zacha scored two power-play goals in the first period. Cory Schneider had 12 saves for the Devils.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS