AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsBut come March, we’re suddenly Governors fans. We want the underdog teams to beat the heavyweights like Kansas, Duke and Michigan State. We want the little guys to triumph. At least we think we do.Another study revealed that underdog status doesn’t merely inspire rooting, it also changes our perception of what we see on the court. When told that a team was the underdog, research participants saw a play like a defender getting close to an opponent and knocking the ball away as reflecting hustle and grit. When watching the very same play, but under the impression that it came from the favored team instead, people saw the tough defense as more of a reflection of natural ability, not effort.To those of us who watch sports, the appeal of the underdog may seem utterly normal and even instinctual. But there’s something counterintuitive about it all. So often in life we try to associate ourselves with winning and success. We are quick to name-drop, hop on bandwagons and buy luxury brands that convey status. Why, then, do we hitch our own wagons to teams that, by definition, are more likely than not to fail?A variety of reasons, actually. There’s the idea of emotional payoff. There’s more potential for return on the investment when you root for the underdog than when the expected happens and the favorite wins. We get such a surge from seeing upsets, and cheering for the least likely outcome, that we’re willing to risk the lesser odds.But perhaps most of all, we’re drawn to the message that giants can be toppled, that with a little luck we, too, can overcome.Politicians know this, too. Bill Clinton might be a Rhodes scholar who went to Yale Law School, but on the campaign trail he was always just a modest guy from a small town in Arkansas. This year is no different. Voters can opt for the son of a hard-working immigrant bartender (Marco Rubio) or the son of a humble pastor (Ted Cruz).On the Democratic side, voters can support the potential first female president. Or the first Jewish president. All politicians seem to want us to think they have underdog status and were born in a log cabin, as President Clinton himself once noted. A candidate who presumably would have decorated that log cabin with, say, his own last name and logo in gaudy gold lettering frames his campaign through the lens of outsider cachet.Yet with our fondness for the underdog, we usually say one thing and do the other. We love underdog independent bookstores but still spend more money at Amazon. We love the neighborhood Italian joint but still take the kids to Olive Garden. We say all the right things about supporting local businesses, but convenience and discount prices often win out.Same with sports: When it’s time to fill out those March Madness brackets, we are likely to rely too much on the favorites. Research on N.F.L. betting over two decades indicates that underdogs at home football games cover the point spread more than half of the time and yet they draw only 40 percent of betting money.It’s an intoxicating, yet often fleeting and shallow fling, our romance with the underdog. We’re enthralled by David, but wager more on Goliath. We’ll spend this Thursday and Friday rooting for basketball Cinderella stories, but still festoon our walls with the logos of favorites.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS