AdvertisementThe 2018 World Cup draw took place Friday at the Kremlin, which seemed as good a place as any to unveil valuable information of vital global interest. Here’s our live coverage and analysis from Moscow.AdvertisementFrom Rory Smith in Moscow: The opening game of the World Cup will be Russia against Saudi Arabia: or, to put it another way, the two worst teams in the tournament, according to the FIFA rankings. The group is quite nicely balanced, though: Uruguay will expect to make the last 16, but both Russia and Egypt will have hopes of joining them.From Rory Smith: Not as bad as it might have been for Portugal and Spain. Both will expect to make it through — though Morocco is not to be underestimated — in a group that also includes Iran. Finishing on top here might prove crucial as the tournament’s knockout round takes shape.AdvertisementFrom Rory Smith: If France had imagined an ideal group, it would have been this. Peru was among the weakest of the second seeds, Australia does not have a coach, and Denmark should not trouble them too much. Second place could be intriguing, though.From Rory Smith: Probably the most delicately balanced, most interesting, and most competitive of all the groups. Argentina only just qualified, Croatia has an abundance of individual talent, Iceland a tremendous collective strength and Nigeria was, possibly, the toughest fourth seed to draw. Argentina will not be happy at all.From Rory Smith: Brazil will not be nearly as happy as France, however. Serbia, Switzerland and Costa Rica is a relatively kind section for Tite’s team. The battle to join them in the last 16 will be absolutely fascinating, however: there is not much between those three teams. And there may not be many goals between them, either.From Rory Smith: Like France and Brazil, Germany has nothing to complain about: Sweden is hard-working but limited, and neither South Korea nor Mexico have the quality to derail the reigning champion.From Rory Smith: It should be a straight shootout between England and Belgium to see who claims the top spot and, with it, a theoretically easier second-round fate. The main advantage Panama and Tunisia have is that both will, to some extent, be unknown quantities.From Rory Smith: Along with Group A, Group H seems the most evenly spread. Poland was among the weakest top seeds, and Colombia will harbor ambitions of finishing first. Japan and Senegal, though, will both see the Round of 16 as a real possibility now.AdvertisementNo United States, so no World Cup for you? Not so fast there — you can make your viewing experience more vital with a bet on who’s going to win it all. The rest of the world can’t wait to hustle to the betting windows on the beautiful game’s premier showcase.Germany and Brazil are the current 5-1 co-favorites, according to the British bookmaker Paddy Power, which also rates France (6-1), Spain (13-2) and Argentina (8-1) as serious contenders. The home team, Russia, is 33-1.Iceland was given a 100-1 chance immediately after the draw, while Tunisia, Saudi Arabia and Panama were the longest shots on the board at 500-1.Looking for a live longshot? How about our neighbor to the South: Mexico is 100-1.Saudi Arabia (wow) goes in Russia’s group, which already looks to be the easiest.Serbia completes Group E, with Brazil.Morocco in with Portugal and Spain in Group B.Australia goes in Group C with France, Peru and Denmark. France is thrilled, surely, and everyone else thinks they have a shot, too.Nigeria in Group D with Argentina, Iceland and Croatia.Panama (this could have been you, USMNT) goes into Group G, with Belgium, Tunisia and England. Not a terrible draw for their debut. Good draw for England, too.Korea (in F) and Japan (in H) complete the field.Let the second-guessing, predictions and analysis commence!AdvertisementEgypt goes in with Russia and Uruguay in Group A.Denmark is drawn next, but can’t go in Group B, so it’s place in C instead, with France. Ugh.Iran fills the Group B spot.Iceland is next out, in Group D with Argentina and Croatia. Harsh draw.Costa Rica gets Brazil in Group E. That could have been you, America.Sweden into Group F.Tunisia with England, then Senegal.Most of the others will be relatively happy: Brazil, Germany and France, the other major contenders, have avoided the worst of the traps. Belgium and England makes for a finely poised group. And Uruguay will be absolutely delighted to have drawn Russia.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Uruguay is the first team out, and they get dropped in with Russia in Group A. (From Rory: So Russia get Uruguay from Pot 2. Or, more accurately, Uruguay get Russia, by far the easiest of the top seeds.)AdvertisementSpain is next, and will play its neighbor Portugal in the first game in Group B.Peru goes in Group C with France. Didier Deschamps is probably fine with that.Croatia in with Argentina in Group D. That’s an unlucky draw for Messi and Co., made worse by Lineker cracking about Maradona being good with his hands as he pulls the team out. Ouch.Switzerland into Group E with Brazil. Gulp.Mexico thrown in with the Germans in Group F.England in Group G with Belgium, and Colombia in H with Poland.Russia, as planned, is the first team out. It goes in Group A.Portugal is next. The European champion goes in Group B.France in Group C.Argentina in Group D.Brazil in Group E.Germany, the World Cup and Confederations Cup champion, in Group F.Belgium is in Group G.Poland in Group H.Gary Lineker reads out the teams and explains the rules, extending the interminable wait a little longer.Remember, Russia will be placed first, as team A1, and play in the opening game.We promise there will be a draw today.AdvertisementInfantino, steps away from Putin, praises his host country, saying Russia is ”a welcoming country, a warm country.”Though not today; it’s in the 30s and snowing outside the hall.Not the picking of teams, mind you. That will still be about 20 minutes — after Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, and FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, come onstage for speeches.“The teams, the coaches, are all our friends,” Putin says.“I love a draw,” Rory said. “I love the word ‘permutations.’ I love the sense that anything is possible. I love seeing that blank slate fill up. I love trying to work out what the best games will be and whose path to the semifinals, to the final, to glory, might be easiest and which most strewn with complication.“And I love the mystery of the World Cup draw. We are saturated with soccer now: We can watch all of the world’s best players every week. Only at the World Cup do players from nowhere suddenly burst to life, and teams — Tunisia, Iran, even Russia itself — from isolated soccer cultures join the party. The draw is the start of that adventure into the unknown.”So before you ask: That’s why Poland, a fine team but hardly a tournament favorite, is in Pot 1.■ The draw will take much longer than it needs to take. It always does. FIFA budgets about an hour for a mix of performances, speeches and, amid much social media grumbling, the draw itself.Advertisement■ The World Cup kicks off June 14, with Russia’s first game, in Moscow. It concludes there on July 15. Germany is the defending champion. No team has repeated as world champion since Brazil, in 1958 and 1962.—-—-FIFA President Gianni Infantino held a pre-World Cup draw news conference Friday, but the topic of the draw barely came up. Instead, Infantino, appearing with Russia’s deputy prime minister, Vitaly Mutko, who leads the country’s World Cup organizing committee, spent more than an hour uncomfortably, and at times angrily, fending off questions about Russia’s doping scandal.Infantino tried to distance FIFA, and the World Cup, from the accusations, which could see Russia banned from the Olympics next week — only months before the country hosts the World Cup. Mutko, formerly Russia’s sports minister and still the head of Russia’s soccer federation, was more combative.Mutko has been implicated in what has been described by whistleblowers and investigators as a massive state-sponsored doping plan, but on Friday he angrily rebutted the accusations and vowed that Russia “will take a firm position and will defend its athletes until the bitter end.”Advertisement“There is no proof,” Mutko said at one point.Infantino also was asked about the ongoing trial in Brooklyn of three former soccer officials who were charged in FIFA’s own broad corruption scandal in 2015, but said he would not comment on “things that are not proven.” Witnesses at the trial have testified about payments from Qatar to FIFA officials to win the rights to host the 2022 World Cup.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWhen a physically active person like me injures a joint, especially one as crucial as a knee or ankle, one of the first thoughts, if not the first thought, is likely to be “How fast can I get back to my usual activities?”That kind of thinking, however, could set the stage for a painful chronic problem years later: post-traumatic osteoarthritis.In the rush to get back in the game, whether as part of a team or elite sport or simply a cherished recreational activity like jogging or tennis, it is tempting to short-circuit the rehabilitation needed to allow the joint to heal fully. But adequate recovery, including rehab measures aimed at strengthening structures that support the injured joint, is critical to maximize its stability, reduce the risk of reinjury and head off irreparable joint damage.And you don’t have to be a senior citizen to pay the price of failing to build up the tissues that help protect that joint. Studies have shown that when an adolescent or young adult sustains a knee injury, for example, X-ray evidence of arthritis is often apparent within a decade.AdvertisementAdvertisementThe Iowa team noted that arthritis will eventually develop in more than 40 percent of people who seriously injure the ligaments (the stabilizing bands that connect bones to one another); the meniscus (the crescent-shaped cartilage that cushions the knee and certain other joints), or the articular surface of a joint. People with a history of trauma to the knee, for example, are three to six times more likely to develop arthritis in that knee. Even without an acute injury, highly repetitive impact on a joint can damage the articular cartilage.This may help to explain why I ended up with bone-on-bone arthritis and had to replace both knees at age 63. I’d sustained three ligament injuries (while skiing) and after years of running and singles tennis, the meniscus in both knees had shredded. Although I did the recommended physical therapy after each injury, I now know that I was not sufficiently diligent about maintaining the strength and flexibility of the supporting muscles and other tissues that might have better protected my knees for years longer.“Increasing evidence demonstrates that young and middle-aged adults are suffering from osteoarthritis as well,” the statement said. “More than half of adults with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis are younger than 65.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jeffrey B. Driban, an athletic trainer at Tufts Medical Center in Boston, said that one person in three who injures the anterior cruciate ligament “will have X-ray evidence of osteoarthritis within 10 years” whether or not the injury is repaired surgically.AdvertisementDr. Driban and co-authors pointed out that some sports – soccer, elite-level long-distance running, competitive weight lifting and wrestling – are associated with a higher risk of knee injuries.A person’s risk of injury can be reduced by having deficits in muscle strength, balance and stability evaluated and treated, Dr. Hart said in an interview. However, he added, “not all injuries can be prevented, and unless the initial injury is properly treated, it can lead to additional injuries to the same joint or other joints,” increasing the chance that arthritis will develop early in life.Dr. Driban said in an interview that sports participants who sustain a knee injury can minimize the risk of reinjury and arthritis by “not rushing back into activity or trying to play through pain. They must strengthen the muscles that support the joint – the quads, hamstrings and hip muscles. It’s important to think about the entire lower extremity, not just the knee.”Following an injury, an athletic trainer, rehabilitation specialist or physical therapist who specializes in orthopedics can evaluate a person’s muscle strength, endurance, balance and movement quality, then guide recovery with a structured rehab program that is maintained for six to nine months, Dr. Hart said.It is also important to continue to pursue an active lifestyle, said Abby C. Thomas of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. “You may have to modify the activities you do, but you have to stay active to maintain strength and cardiovascular fitness without putting repetitive stress on a joint that’s already injured,” she said. “If your knee hurts and you can’t run, maybe get on a bike or swim,” activities that place less stress on the knees.“Don’t sit around on the couch because running hurts,” Dr. Thomas said. “Try walking, or something different, but don’t give up on physical activity.”Lifelong activity is also important to prevent weight gain, since every extra pound places disproportionate stress on the knees. All the authors emphasized that pursuing a healthy lifestyle is crucial for everyone, not just elite athletes and those who play on school teams.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementPHOENIX — Most pitchers are frustrated hitters. Not frustrated because they can’t hit, but because they gave up hitting before the game weeded them out. At some point, a coach or a scout suggested they concentrate on pitching, and that was that.“You’re a good hitter in high school because you’re an athlete, and you get to college and they say, ‘Hey, you’re pitching,’ ” said Los Angeles Angels starter Matt Shoemaker, who once played third base, too.“I think that happens with most guys,” he continued. “Whether you’re in high school or college, being a two-way guy, you’re always like, ‘I want to do both’ — and if you do one, you miss the other.”Advertisement“I can’t imagine, as much as I work on my craft, being able to work on hitting, too,” reliever Cam Bedrosian said. “He’s definitely got his work cut out for him, but he seems to be on top of it. It’s exciting, man. There’s a little bit of envy.”AdvertisementOn Friday, Ohtani pitched at the Milwaukee Brewers’ ballpark in a B game that started at 10 a.m. The press box was packed with dozens of reporters from Japan and a few from the United States, and scouts watched from behind the plate. The stands were almost empty, though — although the Brewers opened the gates early for fans holding tickets to an afternoon game, few showed up.The Brewers estimated the crowd at 60, nearly one for every pitch Ohtani threw in a tantalizing performance against minor leaguers. He recorded eight outs against 12 batters, all by strikeout, and two of the Brewers’ four hits deflected off a fielder’s glove. Working only from the stretch, Ohtani yanked some sliders into the dirt and struggled with his landing spot on the mound. But he felt comfortable by his third inning, when he struck out the side in order.“I am satisfied with this outing,” he said through an interpreter. “I felt like I was in the zone with all my pitches compared to last time. I still need to work on the break of my breaking balls, and my timing. But I did take a step forward.”Ohtani threw to the veteran catcher Rene Rivera and used fastballs, sliders, curveballs and splitters among his 52 pitches.“He looked nasty today,” Rivera said. “That slider, you see the hitters jumping back, thinking they’re going to hit it, and the ball is right on the corner.”Rivera, a defensive stalwart for the Mets and the Chicago Cubs last season, was one of several winter additions for the Angels, who have finished 21 games out of first place in each of the last two seasons. They traded for second baseman Ian Kinsler and signed Zack Cozart, an All-Star shortstop for Cincinnati who will play third base. They also re-signed Justin Upton, the slugging outfielder who arrived in a trade last Aug. 31.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Advertisement“This is his dream,” said Charles Nagy, the Angels’ pitching coach. “He’s a great kid, very respectful, great poise and confidence. He’s done everything we’ve asked of him. He just wants to mesh in and be one of the guys.”Rivera called Ohtani “a funny dude, always joking and happy,” adding that he was trying to learn English quickly. Ohtani said that he was enjoying camp and his teammates and that the lack of days off had been his biggest adjustment; in Japan, players get to rest every fourth day or so.Ohtani could not guess which would be his bigger challenge — hitting or pitching — because the competition in the majors is stronger for both.“Both are going to be pretty much the same,” he said. “It’s going to be hard.”“He’ll go through a bullpen, and if he doesn’t like everything he’s feeling, or what the ball’s doing, he’ll finish his bullpen, go hit batting practice, and then go throw more balls against the wall,” Bridwell said. “You can tell he’s paying attention to every detail.”So is the whole baseball world.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byPERUGIA, Italy — In early 2015, three members of the Liverpool scouting department visited the offices of I.S.M. Academy, a small soccer training school in Corciano, just west of here, to speak with a promising teenage striker.At some point during the visitors’ pitch, Barry Hunter, Liverpool’s chief scout, casually name-dropped Steven Gerrard, the longtime Liverpool captain, perhaps as a way to impress the young player. The reference was met with a confused stare.“Who is Gerrard?” the teenage striker said.Now it was Hunter who seemed confused. As the other men in the room fidgeted in their seats, Hunter reached for his computer and pulled up images of Gerrard, one of the most famous players of his era, and attempted to explain who he was.“This is a bit of an awkward situation,” Alessandro Dominici, 50, the director of the academy, said as he recalled the meeting.But maybe it should not have been a surprise. Most of the time, the striker, Han Kwang-song, seems like any other teenage soccer prospect, from any other country. But from time to time, there are moments when it becomes strikingly clear that he is not.Han, now 19, is North Korean. He arrived in Italy three years ago through an idiosyncratic arrangement between I.S.M. and the North Korean soccer federation that has brought dozens of the hermetic nation’s most promising young players to Corciano.This auspicious form has earned Han the attention of even more big clubs. It has also raised the eyebrows of some members of the Italian parliament, who last year initiated an inquiry into the legal status of another young North Korean product of I.S.M. and who continue to wonder whether the players are free from the control of their government, or if their mere employment violates longstanding international sanctions against North Korea.Han’s young career, then, has felt like an experiment in which the range of outcomes has yet to be fully considered. What would happen if an athlete from North Korean achieved success and stardom — and riches — in sports? What would that player’s life look like? And how would that player and his or her employers navigate the complex tangle of geopolitical tensions that accompany the country’s every move?It was 2012 when officials of North Korea’s soccer federation, which is known as P.R.K.F.A., first approached Antonio Razzi, a longtime member of Italy’s parliament, seeking help placing young soccer players in Italy.Razzi is known here, and sometimes criticized, for his congenial stance toward Pyongyang. He has made 10 diplomatic visits to North Korea, and in an interview recently, he repeated regime talking points — “There’s no unemployment that I’ve seen” — and described its capital as “the New York of Asia.”In the North Koreans’ view, then, Razzi was the perfect person to help broker an agreement. Through a chain of personal contacts, he connected the soccer officials with I.S.M., which they liked because of its proximity to the North Korean embassy in Rome. In 2013, the federation sent a group of boys ages 10 and 13 to Corciano, but I.S.M. deemed them to be too young for the academy. So a year later, Dominici and Luis Pomares, a coach at I.S.M., joined Razzi and a group of Italian politicians and entrepreneurs on a diplomatic trip to North Korea, where they toured the national sports facilities and scouted some players. That was when they first saw Han play.“We sort of looked at each other and said, ‘Where did this kid come from?’ ” Dominici said.Fifteen North Korean boys, including Han, joined I.S.M. that year. The North Koreans initially had a second partnership with an academy in Barcelona called Fundación Marcet, but that relationship dissolved after a year, according to Dominici. Today, I.S.M. has an exclusive contract with the North Korean federation to train its prospects, and scouts from the academy travel to Pyongyang once a year to help pick the next crop of players.Christopher Green, who has interviewed more than 350 North Korean defectors as part of his research on the political landscape of the country, said that even physical education classes in the country’s schools began placing a greater emphasis on soccer in recent years. “North Korea has always had an interest in developing sporting talent — that’s not new — but the focus on football seems to be new,” Green said.Like others with a stock in Han’s success, Passetti played down the importance of Han’s heritage.“He is a really good kid who behaves and carries out a life like all young athletes entering the professional sports world, with friends away from the field and profiles on social media,” Passetti said in an email. “Nationality has never been a criterion that would determine the signing or not of a player.”But some wonder if it should be.In May 2016, two members of the Italian Parliament’s Chamber of Deputies, Michele Nicoletti and Lia Quartapelle, initiated a formal request that the Italian government investigate the contract and the status of Choe Song-hyok, a North Korean product of I.S.M. Academy who had just signed with Fiorentina.Their concerns, Nicoletti said in an interview, were twofold. First, they asked whether any transfer of money — at any point — had violated international sanctions banning payments to North Korea. Second, they wondered whether Choe’s human rights were being restricted in any way.In 2014, a report commissioned by the United Nations Human Rights Council had unequivocally stated that a broad catalog of human rights was being egregiously violated by the North Korean government. Those abuses — including restrictions on personal liberties, strict state surveillance and the seizure of as much as 90 percent of an individual’s wages — often extended to an estimated 100,000 North Koreans working outside the country.(That is why, in July, the United States’ secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, said that any country hosting North Korean workers was “aiding and abetting a dangerous regime.”)Experts say North Korea has sent more workers abroad to fulfill an urgent need back home for hard currency. But in this context, a star athlete offers something unique: a potential vessel of soft power, a rarity for the North Korean government. Remco Breuker, a professor of Korean Studies at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, said that if Han or another player were to achieve soccer stardom, “politically the payout would be huge” for North Korea.The Italian government’s inquiry ultimately cleared the contract between Fiorentina and Choe after determining that his salary was being paid to a bank account in his name. The question of whether his personal freedoms were being violated was more complicated. The government can investigate only a specific complaint from a party to the relationship — like the player or his club — and since no one had made one, it could not pursue any action.Nevertheless, Fiorentina canceled Choe’s contract and dropped its interest in Han.In an interview, though, Quartapelle said she felt compelled to continue to monitor the situation, if only because there was still so little known about Han and the other players. “The impression that many of us have is that there really isn’t all of this freedom,” she said.Perugia said Han and Choe, who signed with the club after leaving Fiorentina, were not available to be interviewed for this article. The North Korean soccer federation did not respond to an email requesting information about the players, and Sandro Stemperini, who has represented Han and Choe as an agent since earlier this year, declined to comment.On Sept. 3, after scoring two goals in Perugia’s 4-2 win over Pescara, Han made a brief and awkward appearance on Sky Serie B, a soccer analysis program, by appearing on a big screen in the studio as the broadcasters peppered him with questions. After Han good-naturedly answered a few in his limited Italian, Gianluca Di Marzio, one of the analysts, called out, “What do they say of you in North Korea?”Han’s expression suddenly became serious. “No, sorry,” he said, before chuckling apologetically. “I don’t want to speak.”The segment came to an abrupt end.Just over two weeks later, Han was scheduled to appear on another program, “La Domenica Sportiva,” alongside Massimiliano Santopadre, the president of the Perugia club, but at the appointed time, only Santopadre showed up to the set. The program’s hosts — and, subsequently, other members of the Italian news media — wondered whether the North Korean government had blocked the player’s appearance.Santopadre tried to shoot down that speculation, saying Han was merely shy. “We live in a free country, and if one of my players asks that he not be interviewed, I cannot oblige him to do otherwise,” Santopadre said in an interview with The New York Times.Perugia, though, is a world away from Pyongyang.The North Korean players at the academy — there are 12 this year, registered as being born in 1999 and 2000 — live alongside others in their age group at the dormitories of the Convitto Nazionale Principe di Napoli Assisi, a boarding school in a nearby town. They sleep three to a room, take classes in the morning and train every afternoon. The cost for each of the 90 or so students at the academy is about 16,000 euros for a nine-month season (about $18,850), which the North Korea soccer federation covers for its players.The federation also sends an adult supervisor to live with the players. While Han was at I.S.M., that person was Yon Kwang-mu, who at the time was the coach of North Korea’s under-17 national team.The adjustment process for the boys can be difficult, with food a major hang-up. Han and the other North Korean players, for example, often begged the coaches to drive them to a sushi restaurant to sate a taste of Asian cuisine, and Dominici said the embassy officials who frequently drove up from Rome to check on the prospects delivered familiar comfort foods like kimchi.Breuker, the professor at the University of Leiden, said that North Koreans overseas often had their personal freedoms explicitly limited and that even diplomats and academics abroad felt the intense weight of the country’s political apparatus, whether through mandated self-criticism sessions or outright surveillance by government officials.But Dominici said the school had not been asked to impose, and did not otherwise know of, any restrictions on the freedom of the North Korean players at his academy.“TV, cellphones, YouTube,” added Pomares, the I.S.M. coach. “They have access to everything.”Han now shares an apartment near Perugia’s training facility with Choe, Santopadre said, and enjoys playing video games. He even plans to get his driver’s license.“I can guarantee that Han carries out a normal life,” Santopadre said. “He has his own cellphone, and like all other 19-year-olds he always has his phone in his hand.”The North Korean teenagers may seem unknowable through their veil of privacy, but they are professional athletes, and glimpses of their lives peek through. One afternoon this fall, Choe and Luciano Mancini, the coach of Perugia’s youth team, sat together at a restaurant near the team’s training facility where a New York Times reporter was already seated for lunch. Mancini gave Choe a pep talk about his play. He asked the teenager about his family back home. Choe, who gave mostly monosyllabic answers in Italian, ordered only a plate of sausages.In moments of silence, the men looked up at a television set to a sports news program.Han, with his strong play, has ventured more completely into the spotlight. Last month, he traveled with Perugia to Brescia, in northern Italy, to play his last match before joining North Korea’s national team for a pair of international games.From the opening whistle, Han menaced the Brescia defense, making multiple dribbling runs from Perugia’s own half of the field. He looked at once eager and assured. His red uniform hung loosely off his slender body, but he showed surprising strength and power, with larger opponents ricocheting off his body.In the second half, Han swooped through Brescia’s penalty area and scored on a powerful header.He hurdled the advertising boards and sprinted with his arms raised toward the southwest corner of the stadium, where a few hundred traveling Perugia fans had been sequestered. After soaking in their cheers, Han ran back to the team’s bench, where he gave the manager a spirited high-five.There was a huge smile on his face, and, for a moment, he looked like any other teenager, from any other country.Brando de Leonardis contributed reporting.videoAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe families of debilitated former N.F.L. players say the league is obstructing their access to an estimated $1 billion settlement over concussions by reflexively rejecting valid claims and bogging down the process with unreasonable demands.After a contentious five-year fight between the league and many former players who had accused the N.F.L. of hiding the dangers of head trauma, the two sides agreed in 2015 to a settlement that covers nearly every former player for the next 65 years.Now the families and their lawyers describe a succession of roadblocks as they try to claim payouts, from as little as a few thousand dollars to potentially several million dollars, to help thousands of retired players left mentally infirm, in some cases severely, from years of hits and tackles on the league’s fields.Of 1,400 claims filed so far, 140 have been approved, which legal experts say is startlingly low. The remaining 90 percent of those claims are in the process of being evaluated or have been sent back to the players and their lawyers to amend before they can be approved.The 140 approved claims are worth $195 million, but the N.F.L. has written checks for only $100 million. The remainder is expected to be released after appeals are exhausted. The league has appealed eight awards that the administrator granted, and 12 players have appealed their awards, calling them too low. The administrator also randomly audits 10 percent of all claims.When the league agreed to the settlement several years ago, retired players were told that they could expect speedy payouts, assuming the diagnoses for Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and other ailments covered in the settlement were in order.But the N.F.L. installed so many safeguards and trapdoors into the deal, lawyers for the players said, that in the eight months since the court-approved administrator of the settlement began accepting claims, many players have been forced to spend months scrounging for paperwork they did not think they had to keep, finding new doctors to confirm established diagnoses and lodging time-consuming appeals.The requests, the league said, are part of its efforts to deter potential fraud and do not represent foot-dragging or a lack of will to help the sick men. But as a result, the players now accuse the nation’s richest league, with $14 billion in revenue, of trying to wear them down so they accept smaller payouts, or none at all.“Players will be shorted what they earned,” said Andrew Stewart, a retired defensive lineman with Parkinson’s disease who expected to receive nearly $3 million but, after a series of delays and requests, has been offered less than a third of that amount and is appealing. “This is not a settlement. This is about paying sick men as little as possible.”Mr. Stewart, who was in the league from 1989 to 1993 and now lives in Canada, received a Parkinson’s diagnosis nearly a decade ago and has been receiving aid from two N.F.L. benefit plans. But to receive money from the settlement, he was required to get a diagnosis from an American doctor.Alerted to some of the delays and accusations of unfairness leveled by lawyers for the players, Anita B. Brody, the federal judge overseeing the case, met with the N.F.L., the plaintiffs’ chief lawyer and a court-appointed administrator on Monday in Philadelphia to look at ways handle claims more efficiently and more transparently.Orran Brown, the court-approved administrator of the settlement, said it was common for the parties to settlements to fine-tune their agreements to account for issues that arise. He said that players were now, for instance, being asked to turn in the raw scores from their neurocognitive exams even though that was not explicit in the original agreement.He said the bulk of the claims that had been sent back to players were for missing paperwork. But another group of claims has been reviewed because many players were receiving identical diagnoses from the same physician, leading to questions of whether the players had been properly examined.Mr. Brown said he understood that players and their lawyers might view these additional requirements with suspicion. But he said they were part of an effort to prevent fraud, not block real claims.“It does seem people feel they are being nickeled and dimed on paperwork,” Mr. Brown said. “But there’s nothing nefarious or conspiratorial in this. The goal is to make sure everyone gets paid for legitimate claims.”The former players who have filed claims are seeking up to $5 million each — though most will probably receive far less — for severe neurological diseases tied to years of head hits on the field. A total of 20,000 retired players registered so they could submit claims now or in the future from the settlement, which offers one-time cash awards for those with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated head hits that is diagnosed posthumously.Chris Seeger, the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said that the administration of such class-action settlements often had “growing pains” because of unanticipated problems. In this case, some former players have “pushed the envelope,” he said, by, among other things, obtaining diagnoses from psychologists, not neurologists; having doctors affirm diagnoses without examining patients; or submitting claims without the necessary medical records.By bouncing claims back to players, the administrator is trying to address “some funny things that didn’t look right,” and to ensure that when claims are finally evaluated, they have a better chance of being approved, Mr. Seeger said.Mr. Seeger disputes claims by lawyers who accuse the N.F.L. of foot-dragging and trying to reduce payments to players.“Is this working perfectly? No,” Mr. Seeger said. But “if there aren’t sufficient records to support a diagnosis, then we have a problem,” he said. “The procedures are laid out, but there is early on typically confusion. Some of it is legitimate stuff that is getting worked out.”Many lawyers for the players do not agree with that explanation. The high number of claims that have been questioned, they said, is evidence that fraud prevention is being used as a way to keep down payouts.“I worked at State Farm for 10 years, so I understand all the tactics,” said Patrick Tighe, a lawyer in Florida who represents 90 players. “There are all sorts of ways to slow down the claims.”All 35 claims Mr. Tighe has filed have been audited or sent back because of “deficiencies,” he said. Jim Acho, a lawyer in Michigan who represents former players, including Gale Sayers, said that just four of the nearly three dozen claims he had filed were approved, and that two of those were audited.Jason Luckasevic, who represents dozens of former N.F.L. players, has filed more than 100 claims, and more than 85 percent of them have been flagged for deficiencies.“The settlement was sold by the N.F.L. and Seeger as quick pay,” Mr. Luckasevic said. “This was something everyone feared. This is the N.F.L. disability plan version 2.0.”The N.F.L., which insisted on much of the fraud prevention language in the settlement, denies that it has pushed the administrator to deliberately delay the payment of genuine claims, and it said that stricter requirements were not added after the deal was made final.“There have been no changes in the terms of the settlement agreement or the criteria for claims approval since the settlement was finalized,” Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said in a statement, adding that neither the league nor Mr. Seeger had taken any steps to delay the payment of legitimate claims.Yet many players are afraid to speak publicly about their cases because they fear the N.F.L. will deny their claims or strip them of other benefits.Mr. Stewart, one of the few who would talk, said the league must be held accountable. He was found to have Parkinson’s disease in 2009, when he was 43.Mr. Stewart expected to receive a gross award of $2.8 million from the concussions settlement. But after he filed a claim, he was told that another doctor had to confirm his diagnosis.The new diagnosis, though, would have applied to his current age, 51, which would have reduced his award by $1.2 million because in the settlement, older players are paid less than younger players on the presumption that their disease is related to age, not football.After Mr. Stewart submitted much additional paperwork, the administrator recognized the earlier diagnosis. But the award was reduced to $750,000 because the administrator calculated he had played only one season, not four.In the deal, the more eligible seasons a player has, the higher the exposure and the higher the award. But the number of seasons is reduced if players spent time on the injured reserved list because they presumably were not exposed to head hits then.Mr. Stewart does not dispute being injured for parts of his career. But in his day, coaches forced him to keep practicing — often with the aid of painkillers — so he was exposed to head hits even if he did not play on game day.In many ways, the N.F.L. case is different from many settlements, experts said. Most settlements describe the kinds of documents to support claims, like a credit card number or a receipt. In the N.F.L. settlement, many retirees are applying for benefits for dementia, which can be complicated to diagnose because it is more subjective than, say, A.L.S.Because awards can reach millions of dollars, the players’ lawyers — many of whom receive a percentage any settlement — have an incentive to make their clients look worse than they may be, a reason for the N.F.L. to be alert to fraud, experts said.Indeed, when the deal was first announced in 2013, the N.F.L. agreed to pay $765 million. But players feared the money would run out before every claim was filed, so the league agreed to “uncap” payments. In return for unlimited liability, the N.F.L. insisted on stronger rules to block fraudulent claims.But the slow pace of approved claims has raised questions about whether those rules were meant to do more than fight fraud.Kenneth Feinberg, who has administered large class-action settlements, including those related to the BP oil spill and the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, said that in the cases he had handled, defendants had a right to try to prevent fraud. But the delays that have come from questioning a large number of claims can erode trust in the settlement.“It’s not just how many claims have been found eligible, but how quickly the money goes out the door,” said Mr. Feinberg, who is not involved in the N.F.L. case. “All the words in the world are no substitute for visible evidence of generosity, and checks flowing to families in need.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement“Are you next?” reads a placard in a glass display case in Seoul’s Gwacheon ice rink, where the next generation of Korean speedskaters take the ice each day — all dreaming of bringing home a medal in the country’s most popular winter sport.SEOUL, South Korea — It was an off night for short-track speedskating at the Winter Olympics, but everywhere else around South Korea, the skating never ends. There are champions to build and rosters to fill for 2022, 2026 and beyond.Two teenage boys, each expecting to be part of the South Korean team at the 2022 Beijing Games, zoomed around the old Gwacheon Ice Rink, heads down, moving as one. As they leaned hard and pumped their legs around one tight corner, a coach held a 9-year-old girl, standing on her skates, by the arms. With perfect timing, he flung her onto the ice, like a fisherman casting a net into the sea.The rocket boost propelled her to speed and landed her in line with the boys, as if they all wore magnets. Three became one. Around they went.Like the dozens of others who call the rink home, they practice six days a week, two or three hours each day.Advertisement“I have trained abroad,” said Lee Seung-Hwan, the kid-flinging coach and a member of South Korea’s long-track speedskating team at the 2002 Salt Lake Games. “I have never seen another country train its children as hard as we do here, from the time they are very young.”With its single sheet of ice and pale yellow walls, Gwacheon is one of three primary rinks in the Seoul area where young skaters are molded into champions.AdvertisementIt is where the figure skater Yuna Kim, the gold medalist in the 2010 Vancouver Games, trained, along with several top speedskaters of the past 30 years, including members of this year’s Olympic team. In the hallways where boys and girls as young as 5 do their warm-up exercises, not far from the snack stand, glass cases display uniforms, skates and autographed photographs of past champions. There are bronzed hand prints of six of them. A big sign on the wall says, “World Star Zone.”One of the display cases is empty, except for a placard.“Are you next?” it reads.Before the Pyeongchang Games, South Korea had won 53 medals in its Winter Olympics history, and 42 were in short-track speedskating. (It was not until these Olympics that South Korea, part of the Winter Olympics since 1948, won a medal in a sport that did not include a skate. That was a gold in men’s skeleton, and Yun Sung-bin is now a national hero.)It is wildly popular on television, the must-see event of the Olympics, and the names of its champions are carved deep in the collective memory.At these Olympics, South Korea won three of the eight events in short-track speedskating, and six medals over all in the sport, more than any other country. Names like Choi Min-jeong, Shim Suk-hee and Kim Alang (all women) and Lim Hyo-jun (men’s 1,500 meter winner) and silver-medalist Hwang Dae-heon joined the pantheon.Like the children at Gwacheon Ice Rink, they were trained as conventional speedskaters until the paths divided — one toward short-track speedskating, with its bursts of power and maneuverability (like driving a Ferrari on a go-kart track, as one coach at the rink said), the other toward long track, with its steady, graceful churn against only the clock.AdvertisementMore children than ever are sliding toward long track, their coaches and parents seeing a way toward the medal stand in a less-crowded field. The long-track events continue through Saturday, but with one night to go, South Korea had five medals. Only the Netherlands had more.South Korea’s success in skating is unusual because there are not a lot of rinks in the country — a couple dozen regular-sized rinks, plus one long-track oval at Taereung National Training Center, a vast multi-sport complex in Seoul. (The oval built in Gangneung for the Olympics, about 100 miles away, is expected to be converted into a convention center.)“In a way, it’s a good thing,” Lee, the coach, said. “Because of these limitations, because of the small numbers, we can really focus our support on these kids. Maybe that is a secret to the success.”The group at Gwacheon numbers more than 100, divided into A, B and C groups, depending on ability. The C group is filled with young children, fitted with helmets, taught to crouch low, to cross their right legs over their left and power through corners. About three dozen are in the B group. Five are in A, including Lee Jin-woo, 15, the top skater of his age in the country.“When I see the Olympic athletes go on the podium to get their medals, I feel very jealous, in a good way,” he said.Lee expects to forge his future in long track, the same as Lee, his coach (they are not related), did. Choosing either short or long track can be difficult at a young age, since almost all training of children is done on regular-sized rinks, like those used for hockey or figure skating.“We teach the power of how you skate, the speed and control,” said Choi Sung-hoon, the manager of the physical education department at Gwacheon Ice Rink.The ability to navigate through crowds, the willingness to bump and grind with other skaters in short track, Choi said, is something deep inside some skaters more than others.“I think you are born with that skill,” he said.Outside his office, groups of children jogged warm-up laps up and down the hallway. They crouched beside two-foot hurdles and, when a coach told them, jumped over them and landed in a crouch again.AdvertisementLee, the coach, wore a strap around his legs, the kind one might use to strap cargo to a car roof, and young skaters in the hall climbed inside the loop and leaned hard to the left, the way they would on the ice, to strengthen their leg muscles. They practiced the right-over-left movements as they side-winded down the hall, as low as they could go, pulling Lee with them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a training room, children carried each other on their backs and did deep knee bends. They stretched with large rubber bands. Even the youngest ones come every day of the week, except Monday.On the ice, figure skaters twirled in the middle of the rink while more than a dozen of the best young speedskaters rushed around them in a single string, moving like a high-speed centipede. Lee, the tallest of the juniors, was at the head, in a speed suit with protective glasses on. Others followed him like crouching shadows, noses to backsides, mostly descending in size and age, all the way to a 9-year-old girl at the tail.Two corners of the rink had crash pads, in case an accidental slip or trip sent any or all of the children crashing out of line. On this night, it did not happen.“I’m a little afraid that I will fall,” said Park Ji-yoon, 11, who wants to be either a teacher or an Olympic speedskater when she grows up. “I just follow the person in front of me without thinking.”The next day, Lee, the coach, drove three of his top boys to the national oval, a 45-minute drive across Seoul. They make the trip two or three times a week, practicing on the big oval with 200 or more other young skaters, under the tutelage of about 30 coaches, all hoping that they will be in the Olympics next time, or the time after that.Tight strings of skaters wove circles around the vast sheet, the ones behind mimicking the one in front, so they all swirled as one, like schools of fish or flocks of birds.Lee Jin-woo, the 15-year-old, led the two others from his home rink — Jeon Min-jae, 14, and An Sung-jun, 13. Lee, the coach, tracked them through the crowds of other skaters, the strings moving at different speeds. He held a stopwatch and barked orders at them as they glided past. Stay synchronized, he shouted near the end of the workout, as their collective rhythm disintegrated.AdvertisementHe knows he is hard on them. He knows that they talk about him when he is out of earshot. He was one of them once, too, before he became an Olympian.“There’s a lot of potential in these kids,” he said. “They’ve already broken the records of the Olympians when they were this age.”The boys came off the ice silently, then into a dressing room to remove their skates and catch their breath. Within minutes, they were back in Lee’s car, headed across Seoul, back to Gwacheon Ice Rink, closer to home.They were going to practice another hour on the short track.Zoe Kim contributed reporting from Seoul.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementTwo top U.S.A. Swimming officials, including one whose job was specifically to protect athletes, have resigned after a series of scathing reports alleging that the organization had ignored sexual abuse by coaches for years while athletes suffered.A statement and letter posted by U.S.A. Swimming described an apparent conflict of interest involving Ms. Woessner, who, until recently, had not disclosed that she had kissed a coach before later being asked to assist in an investigation into whether that coach had become romantically involved with a 21-year-old swimmer.The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not as clear, and U.S.A. Swimming did not say whether the two officials had been forced out or had resigned voluntarily.AdvertisementAdvertisementMs. Woessner was among the officials accused in the Register report of choosing not to pursue sexual abuse cases against coaches even after being presented with direct complaints.In her resignation letter, Ms. Woessner acknowledged that in 2007, during her first stint working with U.S.A. Swimming — as a database coordinator — she “engaged in kissing on a single occasion” with Mr. Hutchison, who was then a coach.She left the organization later that year to pursue a master’s degree in social work, and then returned to U.S.A. Swimming in 2010, when she was named the organization’s athlete protection officer. In that role, Ms. Woessner wrote, she was asked to assist in an investigation into whether Mr. Hutchison was romantically involved with “a 21-year-old athlete member.” (U.S.A. Swimming has said it became aware of a rumored relationship between Mr. Hutchison and Ms. Kukors in 2010, when Ms. Kukors was 21.)AdvertisementBut the statement added that “considering Woessner’s Safe Sport role,” she should have disclosed her interaction with Mr. Hutchison before taking part in the investigation into his behavior.Ms. Woessner did not immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on Friday night.Mr. Hogan, who served in his role at U.S.A. Swimming for 15 years, became romantically involved with Julie Ginden, one of his teenage swimmers in Atlanta, in the 1980s. They married when she was 20, and have since divorced.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not clear. Efforts to reach Mr. Hogan on Friday night were unsuccessful.In an email sent on Monday to Mr. Hinchey, B. Robert Allard, a lawyer for Ms. Kukors, demanded that the U.S.A. Swimming chief fire Ms. Woessner and Mr. Hogan by Feb. 28.“If you fail to meet this demand, we will assume that you stand by these two people and back up everything that they said and did in the past,” Mr. Allard wrote in the email. “I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt. Now is the time to show your true colors.”Asked for comment late Friday, Isabelle McLemore, a spokeswoman for U.S.A. Swimming, said, “At this time our statements stand as our comments on these matters.”In his letter to members, Mr. Hinchey noted the “recent media coverage,” and emphasized that the organization “does not tolerate sexual abuse or misconduct.”“We will not shy away from acknowledging or supporting survivors of abuse, and we will strive to ensure that there is never a lapse of a support system again,” the statement said. “While we disagree on several of the reported statements and many of the conclusions in recent media reports, members were failed, and we are doing everything we can to make sure it never happens again.”Jacey Fortin and Karen Crouse contributed reporting and Doris Burke contributed research.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGANGNEUNG, South Korea — It may not have been the most obvious choice for Yura Min and Alexander Gamelin, the American-born ice dancing pair representing South Korea at the Olympics, to skate on Tuesday to “Arirang,” a Korean folk song whose roots go back hundreds of years.There was concern in their camp that the international judges at the Winter Games would not respond to a tune unfamiliar to them. But for Ms. Min — and for any Korean watching — the significance of the choice was clear.“Even though it could be difficult to get high scores from foreign judges, I wanted to perform with ‘Arirang’ at the first Winter Olympics in Korea, and I did,” Ms. Min told Korean reporters on Tuesday. “I was born in the United States, but I am proud to be Korean.”In an 1896 essay, Homer B. Hulbert, an American missionary in Korea, wrote: “To the average Korean, this one song holds the same place in music that rice does in his food — all else is mere appendage. You hear it everywhere and at all times.”AdvertisementThe same could perhaps be said about the song’s place at these Games. It has turned up as more than background music for the skating pair’s routine. It was played twice at Olympic Stadium during the opening ceremony. It has been sung in the stands at hockey games. And with all the interaction here between North and South Korea, it has served as a stand-in national anthem for the formerly unified countries.“Arirang,” which today generally refers to the melody and lyrics of a version first recorded in 1926, has become a catchall tune, a blank canvas onto which Koreans can paint their emotions. Over the years, it has absorbed varied cultural meanings, whether at home or among the diaspora. For some Koreans, it can be overwhelmingly evocative, provoking tears or a swell of pride.Advertisement“A couple of my American colleagues told me they wanted to jump off the stage and go hug somebody there,” said Ms. Kim, who moved from Seoul, South Korea, to Los Angeles when she was 10. “‘Arirang’ captures the heart of Korea — not North, not South, just Korea.”“Arirang” served as the anthem for the joint Korean women’s hockey team. At the opening ceremony, when the North and South Korean athletes emerged before the crowd, the pop music booming over the speakers paused, and “Arirang” began to play. The North Korean cheerleaders here have been singing it inside arenas.The infinite ways that the two countries have diverged in the past 70 years are well documented. But the song, beloved in both countries, reminds them of the ways they are the same.“It symbolizes the unification so well,” said Jung Jae-eun, 40, a spectator at the opening game for the Korean women’s hockey team.Arirang — as a song, as a concept, as a name — is omnipresent. When Koryolink, North Korea’s wireless telecommunications provider, revealed its first smartphone five years ago, it was named Arirang. The first South Korean-made satellite launched into space was called the Arirang-1. North Korea’s irregularly held arts and gymnastics festival — which reportedly can feature more than 100,000 performers — is known as the Arirang Mass Games. Arirang cigarettes remain a cult favorite in South Korea. And innumerable Korean restaurants around the world are named Arirang.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“It’s synonymous in many ways with what it means to be Korean — which of course is very complicated,” said Hilary Finchum-Sung, an ethnomusicologist at Seoul National University.AdvertisementAsked for a comparison from another country, Ms. Finchum-Sung cited “Danny Boy,” which perhaps plays a similar role for the Irish.The version most popular today — known as “Bonjo Arirang,” or “Standard Arirang” — originated from a 1926 anti-Japanese silent film called “Arirang,” which became a sensation in Korea during the colonial period.The song’s continued emergence within that colonial context imbued it with solemnity, and today many view the tune as one of the foremost articulations of han — the bitter, unyielding melancholia that is often described as a national characteristic.As the music historian E. Taylor Atkins wrote: “ ‘Arirangs’ have articulated the sorrow of lovers parting, the injustices of life for common people, the nostalgia for one’s hometown, the disorientation experienced during periods of dramatic change or the resolve to persevere and conquer oppression.”“It just means that much to them,” she said.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGo ahead and check the box on the most important metric of the Knicks’ young season and perhaps their entire season: the all-important vision thing.Part A: Kristaps Porzingis comfortably views himself as the heir to the role of franchise player.Part B: Frank Ntilikina, the rookie point guard from France, clearly sees the floor.Not to overstate the value of a three-game winning streak following the same number of dismal defeats, but six games in, it is already safe to say that anyone mourning the end of the Carmelo Anthony era has lifted the veil and shed the fear that Porzingis needed cover from the pressure of being a leading man in big, bad New York.“From the beginning I wasn’t scared,” he said before a career-high 38 points powered a 116-110 Knicks victory over Denver on Monday night at a suddenly buzzed Madison Square Garden.AdvertisementMoving on from the Anthony era was never going to be difficult because it wasn’t really memorable, or all that watchable. And while Anthony was as deadly a scorer as the Garden has ever regularly observed, there was never much evidence that he was a born leader.AdvertisementIn that vein, Porzingis has challenges ahead, not the least of which will be staying healthy and upbeat if the losses should mount. But at 22, and having promised in three languages (Latvian, Spanish and English) at 19 that he was no soft, shy European, he has gracefully embraced his promotion.As Porzingis drained free throws to seal a game the Knicks dominated except for one horrific third-quarter stretch, I mentioned to someone sitting next to me at the Garden that Porzingis’s willingness to blow off an exit meeting with Phil Jackson last April, when Jackson still ran the team, was actually an example of a precocious young star showing conviction.“People said he should have told Phil what he was upset about directly, but he was sending a message to ownership that he wasn’t going to accept the chaotic way the franchise was being run,” I said. “Even if his people put him up to it.”The guy introduced himself as Dan Rohme of the agency ASM Sports — or as he said, “one of Kristaps’s people.”Oops.For what it’s worth, he didn’t bother to correct me.Mission accomplished. Jackson took the bait, commenced fielding trade offers for Porzingis and was soon posting on Twitter a selfie of his unemployed bare feet from his Montana retreat.The unofficial Friends of Anthony association will point out that he was routinely targeted for not sharing the ball enough while Porzingis will get a pass for his own high-volume shooting. In the six games to date this season, while averaging 29.3 points, he has all of 5 assists.The crucial difference is in the approach. While he obviously feels free to launch from far and away, occasionally too soon, Porzingis gets most of his shots within the flow of an offense. He is also demonstrating a greater comfort closer to the basket — catching, turning and daring a player several inches smaller to block his shot.AdvertisementAs Rohme said, wait until his slender legs fill out and allow Porzingis, at 7 feet 3 inches, to better fend off the more brutish post defenders.While Porzingis isn’t opening eyes with his passing the way Nikola Jokic, Denver’s 6-10 Serbian stud, has since becoming the hub of the Nuggets’ offense, he’s not exactly inhibiting teammates from getting theirs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Having watched the Knicks beat the Nets last Friday night at the Garden in a seat behind the home team’s bench, what struck me about Ntilikina was how he plays with his eyes literally open wide — though not in stage fright.He may not be as audacious a rookie as Porzingis was, but nor is he averse to being bold in moments. Ntilikina made several passes — bounce passes for the purists left among us — against the Nets in transition that, more even than Porzingis, roused the Garden in the way that only visionary ball-sharing can.Ntilikina was injured during summer league and for most of training camp so, who knew? In the Knicks’ pregame locker room Monday night, Kanter said he did.“Let me tell you something, his vision is probably one of the top 10 in the N.B.A. right now,” he told me.Really?“Yes. His vision is unbelievable. He’s going to be special.”He is also rookie raw, with nine turnovers to go with 10 assists, including an embarrassing strip while dribbling the ball up court against Denver’s Will Barton. Let’s also note that Kanter was hyping Porzingis for the N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Award on Monday night, suggesting that three straight wins, with Houston in town on Wednesday night, have been intoxicating, if not mind-altering.Then again, along with excellent court vision, Ntilikina is 6-5 with long limbs that foretell an ability for the Knicks to finally address a ruinous lack of defensive pressure at the point of attack. Kanter, too, should know transcendent potential when he sees it, having shared much court time at his last stop in Oklahoma City with Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant.AdvertisementIt would be cruelly unfair to expect or predict that level of greatness on anyone. But given early evidence of a tandem that will give the Knicks a real foundation, why not at least begin the anthem of hope with, O say, can you see?An earlier version of this article misstated a part of the name of the agency that represents Kristaps Porzingis. It is ASM Sports, not ASA.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementAn American swimmer who competed in the 2012 Olympics has accused her former coach of sexually abusing her when she was a teenager.The swimmer, Ariana Kukors, 28, said in a statement on Wednesday that the coach, Sean Hutchison, began sexually abusing her when she was 16 and had been “grooming” her for three years before that.In a statement emailed by his lawyer, Mr. Hutchison, 46, said Thursday that the accusations were not true. He said that the two had had a “committed relationship” that began after she was of age and that they had lived together for more than a year after the 2012 Olympic Games.Advertisement“At no time did I ever abuse Ariana Kukors or do anything with her that was not consensual,” the statement said. “I absolutely deny having any sexual or romantic relationship with her before she was old enough to legally make those decisions for herself. Prior to that time, I did nothing to ‘groom’ her.”Advertisement“Her younger sister also lived with us for several months and her mother was a regular visitor to our home,” the statement added. “I deeply regret that she would make these wild allegations all these years later.”The lawyer, Brad Meryhew, said Mr. Hutchison would not comment further.In response to Mr. Hutchison’s statement, B. Robert Allard, one of Ms. Kukors’s lawyers, said: “Ariana was groomed and manipulated as a minor by her trusted swim coach. He sexually assaulted her starting when she was 16. This abusive relationship continued until the age of 24. I would hardly characterize this a ‘committed relationship’ in the sense of two consenting adults who freely and willingly engage in healthy relations. There is nothing healthy about childhood sexual abuse.”The United States Homeland Security Department is “still in the very preliminary stages” of an investigation into this case, Lori Haley, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an email on Thursday. “But our top priority in all cases involving alleged online child exploitation is identifying any possible minor victims.”Ms. Kukors once held the world record for the 200-meter individual medley and has won medals at several international competitions. She competed in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.Mr. Hutchison has worked with several Olympic swimmers, including the medalists Margaret Hoelzer, Caroline Burckle and Kara Lynn Joyce. He was an assistant coach for the women’s swimming team during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.He met Ms. Kukors when he was a coach at King Aquatic Club in Seattle, according to Ms. Kukors’s statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In a statement on Thursday, Michael Brooks, the head coach at the club, said that news of the allegations “broke our collective hearts.”“Ariana Kukors is part of the King Aquatic family and we only want the best for her,” Mr. Brooks said. “Our staff is meeting to review this devastating news. Sean Hutchison has stepped down as an executive with King and has had no direct interaction with our swimmers for a very long time.”AdvertisementMr. Allard said that U.S.A. Swimming had been given notice in 2010 about the inappropriate coach-athlete relationship but had done nothing.U.S.A. Swimming, the organization that governs the sport in the United States, said in an emailed statement on Thursday that it “became aware of a rumored relationship between Hutchison and then 21-year-old Ariana via a third-party” in 2010. (The organization said Mr. Hutchison does not work for the organization, but he once had a coach membership and remains a nonathlete member.)U.S.A. Swimming said that it conducted an investigation into the rumor in 2010, but that Ms. Kukors and Mr. Hutchison both “unequivocally denied the existence of a romantic or sexual relationship,” and the case was closed.In light of Ms. Kukors’s allegations this week, the organization expressed support for her and other victims “in their quest to break their silence and confront their horrific experiences.”According to Ms. Kukors’s statement, she realized that she had been abused only “through recent therapy and after years of suppressing memories of the pain and suffering,” and that she was coming forward with her story on the recommendation of victims’ advocates.Matthew Haag contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »