AdvertisementSupported byOn College Football“The Big 12 decision, in a lot of ways, is good because it does not create chaos in the system,” Massaro said.Middle Tennessee State, which is in Murfreesboro, outside Nashville, was not among the 11 institutions that made the Big 12’s final cut — a list that included eminent universities like Rice and Tulane, football powers like Brigham Young and Houston, and former power-conference mainstays like Cincinnati and Connecticut.That collection of programs, which included Arkansas State, East Carolina and Southern Methodist, may have seemed random, but all the bidders were reasonably seeking the prestige and the financial benefit that come with membership in one of the so-called Power 5 leagues: the Atlantic Coast, Big 12, Big Ten, Pacific-12 and Southeastern Conferences.Middle Tennessee State, a Conference USA team that was not a favorite or even a bidder in the pursuit of the Big 12, was a secondary domino.And why not?“Our goal,” Massaro said of any possible conference realignment, “is to be ready for it and, if there are opportunities, to be in a position to take advantage of it.”Middle Tennessee State’s football program had jumped to Division I-A (now known as the Football Bowl Subdivision), from Division I-AA (now the Football Championship Subdivision), in 2000 when it joined the Sun Belt Conference. The program took the step up to the comparatively richer Conference USA in 2013. Each leap brought boosts in prestige and payouts.So while a midtier program might find joining the A.A.C. like getting a grade changed from a B to a B-plus, joining the Big 12 would have been like turning that B into a Ph.D. For programs like Cincinnati and Connecticut, it was worth a try.Massaro’s outlook, then, was cold-eyed and realistic — which made it strikingly different from the view articulated just a couple of hours earlier by the Big 12’s commissioner, Bob Bowlsby.“I don’t honestly know what we expected at the very beginning,” Bowlsby said at a news conference, referring to the conference’s reaction to all the institutions raising their hands like audience volunteers at a children’s magic show. “It was an opt-in process. We had quite a few people self-identify.”He added, “It was perhaps a little bit more of a sweepstakes than we might have thought it was going to be at the very beginning.”Bowlsby may have been referring to just how public it all got. B.Y.U.’s candidacy evolved into a national debate over its honor code, which bans “homosexual behavior.” Several universities openly lobbied for themselves, emailing their official case statements to reporters.But is it possible that the Big 12 simply did not expect the scope and intensity of the interest from Group of 5 universities eager to acquire the magic bean of college sports that is membership in a Power 5 league?In an interview last month, Hunter Yurachek, Houston’s athletic director, was blunt about the fate of teams outside the Power 5. “To say you want to compete at the highest level, which is have an opportunity to go to the College Football Playoff and be a part of that, we do not have the resources to do that on a sustained, year-in-and-year-out basis,” he said.So of course even a crack in the Big 12 door became a sweepstakes. Aspirationally competitive in a way that F.C.S. programs are not and financially disadvantaged in a way that Power 5 institutions are not, Group of 5 programs, as they are currently constituted, had no choice.And, in fact, they still don’t.“They’re going to hope they get invited to the power conferences and make a boatload of money, and that won’t happen in the majority of cases,” said Gilbert M. Gaul, the author of “Billion-Dollar Ball,” which examines the business of college football.“There might be wiggle room for four or five schools to get invited, and they’ll cash in,” he added. “In the meantime, we’re still going to be left with these other 60 to 65 schools trying to play football and losing money.”Recent history justifies Gaul’s skepticism. In the past few years, several colleges lost major-conference status when they moved to the A.A.C. from the old Big East; only a handful of midmajor institutions were plucked upward. And the opportunities to join the Power 5 may decline: The Big 12 could implode in roughly a decade, when Texas and Oklahoma could be free to go to another league.At Middle Tennessee State, Massaro remains optimistic.“There’s lots of ways to move forward,” he said. “Recently, schools have done it through realignment. Others have done it through their infrastructure and building a better conference than the conference they’re in.”Times change and conferences evolve, Massaro said.“I don’t know if there is an endgame in college athletics,” he said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS