AdvertisementSupported byBut who wants to wait? Less than 24 hours after the first round was completed, everyone with a keyboard and an opinion was already grading the picks, sometimes pretty harshly.On the other hand ...The selection of the quarterback from North Carolina was met with an extended Bronx cheer. The Chicago Bears picked up a C and three D’s. Walter Football did not give the pick a grade, but wrote, “This is one of the worst draft moves ever made” and called it a “franchise-ruining selection.” Let’s call that an F.There was dismay that the Bears had sent picks to the San Francisco 49ers just to move up one notch in the draft. There was puzzlement over why the team had just paid Mike Glennon a lot of money to be its quarterback. There was concern over Trubisky’s brief career — just one full season — as a starter in college.There was one exception. Dieter Kurtenbach of Fox rated the pick an A-minus. Combined with the less positive grades, the G.P.A. is 1.45. Now Trubisky has to prove almost everyone wrong.Now here was a pick everyone could get behind. Four A-pluses and two A’s for the choice of the defensive lineman from Stanford. Average: 4.20, the highest of the round. “It’s an easy pick and the right one,” Fox said.Several graders gave bonus points to the 49ers for fleecing the Bears out of those extra picks.Hoffman in The Times pointed out: “He will likely be asked to play tackle in the N.F.L., which may require adding some bulk to his athletic frame.”Sometimes the consensus is good. Sometimes it’s bad. Sometimes there is no consensus.Most graders felt that Fournette of L.S.U. was the best running back available, and maybe the best player. Hoffman wrote, “He is a throwback to the power runners of yesteryear.”But do you really take an old-school running back this high? And is any Jags running back going to succeed with the team’s poor offensive line?The grades for the pick ranged from A-minus to D, with an average of 2.72.The wide receiver from Western Michigan was greeted with a respectful, if not gushing, thumbs up. “The most pro-ready receiver in this class,” Sports Illustrated said. But some felt the Tennessee Titans had more pressing needs. Grade average: 2.90.The biggest cheers of the rest of the first round went to these four selections:AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS