AdvertisementSupported byThe Houston Cougars could have played their football game at Texas-San Antonio on Saturday. Instead they chose to postpone it, deciding there were things much more important than football this week with Houston besieged by catastrophic flooding from Hurricane Harvey.“We felt like it wasn’t the right thing to do in terms of where our city is,” Houston Coach Major Applewhite said. “Sports are important and sports are fun and it’s entertainment, but with casualties in our city and the state of mind of our players and our players’ families, it’s not the right thing to do, to play a game.”Officials said they would explore options for rescheduling the game.The Texans are playing their “home” preseason game on the road against the Dallas Cowboys. The Rice football team has not been home in days, holed up in Fort Worth on the Texas Christian campus after a game in Sydney, Australia, over the weekend.Monaco, the defending Ligue 1 champion, signed forwards Stevan Jovetic from Inter Milan and Keita Balde from Lazio, pre-empting the anticipated departure of Kylian Mbappe to Paris Saint-Germain. P.S.G. is reportedly close to sealing a loan move for Mbappe, with an option to acquire the 18-year-old for 180 million euros ($216 million) next season.P.S.G. is not in a position to land Mbappe right now. It signed Neymar from Barcelona this month for a world-record 222 million euros ($262 million) and is restricted by rules designed to curtail excessive spending by clubs each season. Balde, 22, who plays for Senegal, scored 16 goals for Lazio in Serie A last season and has signed a five-year deal. Jovetic, 27, signed a four-year deal.Chris Froome kept his Vuelta a España lead by avoiding trouble in the difficult final descent of Stage 10, which was won by Matteo Trentin. It was the second stage victory for Trentin, an Italian, who outsprinted the Spaniard Jose Joaquin Rojas at the end of the 164.8-kilometer (102.4-mile) ride from Caravaca de la Cruz to Alhama de Murcia in southeastern Spain.Froome, the Tour de France winner, finished 24th in the stage but stayed 36 seconds ahead of Esteban Chaves of Colombia and Nicolas Roche of Ireland, his closest challengers in the overall standings.Royals pitcher Danny Duffy has been cited on suspicion of driving under the influence in suburban Kansas City last weekend, another headache for a team struggling on the field. Duffy had left the team’s trip to return to Kansas City for a magnetic resonance imaging test on his ailing left elbow. Duffy is one of the organization’s most popular players, not only for his on-field production but his work in the community. Duffy, a left-hander who signed a $65 million, five-year contract extension earlier this year, is 8-8 with a 3.78 earned run average.Sid Wilson, a New York City high school star, has requested to transfer from St. John’s before his freshman season starts. St. John’s has granted the 6-foot-7 Wilson permission to speak with other Division I programs. Before signing with St. John’s in May, Wilson spent his senior year at Brewster Academy in New Hampshire, where he helped lead the Bobcats to the 2017 National Prep Championship. He had also attended St. Raymond in the Bronx.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS