AdvertisementSupported byHere are Miles 1 through 24, left mostly intact, complete with dated references to the Nets’ new home (they’ve played at Barclays Center for over four years now) and TV shows like “Mad Men,” “30 Rock” and “Gossip Girl.”When more than 50,000 runners line up to start the New York City Marathon on Sunday, the foot of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in Staten Island will be like a shaken soda bottle.Runners in the green start will be on the lower level of the bridge, and those in the blue and orange starts on the upper level. Everyone will spend the first mile going uphill. Not many runners are likely to feel the effects, at least not yet. There is too much exhilaration in the air, and too many people around to run very fast, anyway.As runners reach the end of their climb at the middle of the bridge and the Mile 1 marker, they may feel on top of the world. In actuality, they will be at the highest elevation point of the race. Only four boroughs and 25 miles to go. Oh yes, and those 385 yards.After a glorious run uphill in the opening mile of the New York City Marathon, Mile 2 is a downhill joy ride from the crest of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge into Brooklyn.A certain giddiness can take hold here. The air of celebration and the steady decline give runners a natural boost.John Honerkamp, a running coach with New York Road Runners, said it was easy to go too fast here, and suggested not worrying about split times yet.“The first two miles are a wash,” Honerkamp said. Enjoy the view, he advised, and forget the GPS until Mile 3. “If you hammer a downhill, you can mess up your quads. Err on going too slow.”There is plenty to divert the pace-obsessed. There are more than 1,700 portable bathrooms at Fort Wadsworth, and a steady dose of them along the course beginning at Mile 3. But for some runners, the staggered starts and long waits in corrals are too much. The side of the bridge becomes a de facto urinal. Race organizers, for the record, prohibit this. But those of us who have run this race invariably recall it.As runners complete their descent, they begin to diverge into their color-coded routes, spilling like rivulets into the streets.My Times colleague Samantha Farlow said she was struck here by the first glimpse of spectators: a small number of them, high above on an overpass, offering a warm welcome to Brooklyn. The crowds will soon thicken and the volume rise, but it’s all about small memories like this one, isn’t it?In 1970, 127 distance runners paid a dollar each to run in the first New York City Marathon. The course consisted of loops around the rolling hills of Central Park. Fewer than half finished.That first citywide race, in 1976, had 2,090 runners. Adding tens of thousands of people to the field over the decades has turned race management into a science. One of the most difficult tasks is keeping runners moving through the relatively narrow streets of the first few miles. That is why the start is staggered into four waves on three color-coded routes (each with their own “start village” at Fort Wadsworth). And it is why runners are further divided into crowd-control corrals at the start.It is here in Bay Ridge, between Miles 2 and 3, where the three routes are most separate. Athletes in the blue stream (the elite men and women follow this route) are the first to exit the highway off the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge onto Dahlgren Place. They hang a left at 92nd Street and a right onto Fourth Avenue, where they will settle in for the next five and a half miles.The orange stream exits at 92nd Street, abruptly loops back toward the bridge and takes a right turn and then another right onto Fourth Avenue, merging with their blue brethren.And then there are the greenies, who ran on the lower level of the bridge. While the upper-level blue and orange people quickly exit to streets, the greenies stay on the Gowanus Expressway a bit longer, in the southbound lanes, which everyone hopes will be a little less congested than during rush hour.The greenies do not rejoin everyone else on Fourth Avenue until well after Mile 3, at Bay Ridge Parkway. Now, separated only by the median, and with thickening crowds of supporters, everyone is in this together.With marathoners now settled on Fourth Avenue for a lengthy stretch, many take stock of their pace, grab their first cup of water or high-five a child for the first of, oh, a hundred times.Perhaps they’ll wave back to coffee sippers at Mocha Mocha or hookah smokers at the Gulf Cafe. They’ll marvel at how many houses of worship line Fourth Avenue.Athletes will scan the sidewalks for family and friends who’ve taken the R train to Bay Ridge before they hop back on the subway in hopes of outpacing their loved one to another point on the course. (Spectators looking for a specific runner should be on the runners’ left for orange athletes and to the right for blue and green.)A few decades ago, Bay Ridge was known as home to generations of families with Italian, Irish and Scandinavian roots. Today, Russians, Asians and Arabs have arrived in large numbers. (There is still a Norwegian parade every May.) This is as much a cultural mix as any neighborhood along the way.Goodbye, Bay Ridge.Hello, Sunset Park.There’s St. Michael’s. Moving right along.In the sixth mile, competitors will fly by at least half a dozen live bands and one spectacular cemetery.There’s a string of fast-food restaurants on this stretch, but large quantities of everything can be had at Costco one avenue to the runners’ left, at Third and 38th.This neighborhood is named after the cemetery: Greenwood Heights.With all the cheering and the music, with runners dressed in tuxedos, tutus and Superman outfits, marathoners may be excused if they are not focusing on the American Revolution and the American pastime.That Old Stone House (built in 1699 and reconstructed in the 1930s) was the site of important fighting in the Battle of Brooklyn on Aug. 27, 1776. The British Army was thumping George Washington’s troops, but an outmanned Maryland regiment fought off the British long enough for the rest of the American troops to escape and fight another day.The Dodgers and their rooters would be famously colorful and boisterous in the decades to come, but when the team advertised for ballplayers back in 1883, it seemed that management wanted a gentlemanly bunch, according to Richard Goldstein, author of the 1991 book “Superstars and Screwballs: 100 Years of Brooklyn Baseball” and a former editor at The Times.“A runner in the vicinity of Washington Park back then might have expected a sedate setting,” he said. “As a writer for the sports journal New York Clipper put it: ‘They want men of intelligence and not corner-lot toughs who may happen to possess some ability as players.’ ”This stretch of Fourth, between Miles 6 and 7, was once a bit dingy and off the commercial path, but is now ripe for a diversionary game of Count the Condos.The subway station at Ninth Street is the best bet for spectators wanting to watch around here. It has a crossover, so you won’t be stuck on one side (you can’t cross Fourth as the runners go by), as you might at other nearby stations. Also, you could arrive on the R, F or G train and then hop back on the G to head farther up the course to perhaps encounter those same tuxedos, tutus and Supermen.Once athletes cross the Mile 7 mark, there’s less than a mile to go on Fourth Avenue before the complexion of the course changes dramatically.As the tower approaches, details like the four-sided clock below the dome come into sharper relief.The numbered streets crossing Fourth Avenue, which helped marathoners track their progress all the way from the 90s in Bay Ridge, are gone. Now it’s streets like Garfield, Carroll and President.Union, Sackett, Degraw and Douglass fly by. Butler, Baltic, Warren, St. Mark’s. Some cool bars line the left side here, like Pacific Standard and 4th Avenue Pub.Flatbush Avenue runs the entire length of Brooklyn, but marathoners will enjoy it for about 225 yards before hanging a sharp right onto Lafayette Avenue.Next it’s on to the ninth mile, through some of New York City’s most vibrant neighborhoods.This mile, which crosses through the Fort Greene and Clinton Hill sections of Brooklyn, is one to savor. If Fourth Avenue was like a long overture to a classical symphony, allowing marathoners to settle in and spread out, then Lafayette Avenue is like a brisk jazz solo.The path is much thinner now, on a one-way street, adding a sense of intimacy and the illusion of moving faster.The majestic Peter Jay Sharp Building of the Brooklyn Academy of Music soon appears on the right. Across the street is Berlyn, a visually tasty (and that’s all that matters right now) German-Austrian restaurant.Fulton Street cuts through diagonally, creating a fork in the road and a space called Fowler Square, which is more like a triangle. It features a statue of a beloved Civil War general and an expanded pedestrian area. Restaurants and bars like Smoke Joint, Mullanes Bar and Grill and Frank’s Cocktail Bar line the angles of the intersection.The race itself takes in only a brief slice of the neighborhood, in the northwest corner. After the Mile 9 marker, at Classon Avenue, the course runs a few hundred more yards on Lafayette Avenue before turning left on Bedford Avenue.This rest of the mile is a downhill, low-key breather, with the Citigroup Center’s unmistakable angled roof visible in the distance in Manhattan. It’s a good time to check pace, breathe easy and, to the extent that it’s possible during a 26.2-mile run, relax.Remember the roar of the crowd at the end of Fourth Avenue? Those spectators on Lafayette who may have sweetly fibbed when they said you looked awesome?The marathon, Robbins writes, runs “counter to the Hasidic community’s strict interpretation of the commandment of tznuit, modesty.” So when the runners reach this stretch, “they are met with silence, interrupted only by the rustling of the fall leaves on the street or the muted sounds of small hands clapping. The runners see stares — quizzical, blank or bored — or they see people look away in modesty.”The sight of thousands of runners in shorts or skin-tights traipsing through such a traditional neighborhood, as men go about their regular Sunday business (Sabbath was Saturday) and women walk with their children and strollers, is unforgettable and so totally Brooklyn.It is also fleeting. After crossing the aptly named Division Avenue, Bedford slants to the right, putting the ramp to the Williamsburg Bridge into view. The look of the bystanders changes.At Broadway, and a block to the right, is the beautiful dome atop the original Williamsburgh Savings Bank building, finished in 1875 (Peter Luger Steakhouse is across the street).Just past the bridge on the right is a colorful mural outside the Williamsburg Music Center, which showcases the local jazz scene. The South Side is a longtime home to Puerto Rican and Dominican residents, but like so many neighborhoods around here it is gentrifying rapidly.Runners enter the park while still in Williamsburg, enjoy a peaceful, tree-lined stretch, and exit in the home of Mile 13, Greenpoint.Greenpoint comes right after Williamsburg, both on the marathon route and in the changes sweeping through the waterfront neighborhoods of Brooklyn.On Manhattan Avenue, though, our running path for the 13th mile, an old-neighborhood feel remains, and an unconventional runner craving protein will find plenty of places to grab kielbasa.As marathoners emerge from the relaxing tree cover of McCarren Park, they pass the Mile 12 marker and angle left onto Manhattan Avenue, where Bedford Avenue ends.A block later, the masses swing a sharp right onto Greenpoint Avenue for perhaps a one-minute downhill glide, and then a left onto McGuinness Boulevard.It is a testament to the lure of this area that even on this stretch of McGuinness, where loud trucks rumble past wheel alignment shops and electrical supply companies, condos line the left side of the street.The Pulaski Bridge is just ahead. Is it halftime already?The 13.1-mile mark is a chance to assess the landscape and ask some questions. Am I on pace? Am I drinking enough? Why am I doing this?Atop the bridge, marathoners will have their first sweeping views since the start of the race. There is the Midtown Manhattan skyline to the left, and signs everywhere else of the city’s infrastructure and industrial past: the traffic-clogged Kosciuszko Bridge, the tolls to the Queens-Midtown Tunnel and the Queens Citigroup Building, the city’s tallest outside Manhattan.But this is a time to focus on what lies ahead, not below. We’re halfway to the finish, an exhilarating moment. Nice and easy on that decline into Queens, though. There’s a doozy of an uphill on the way.“Everybody was Irish or Italian,” said Ledden, one of the Irish guys, over a beer at Corner Bistro on Vernon Boulevard. “They intermarried. Talk to another old-timer around here and I’m probably related to them.”“The Budweiser keeps the memory going,” he said.Once gritty, Long Island City now has more of a Greenwich Village feel, complete with Greenwich Village restaurants.Corner Bistro, a packed burger-and-beer joint on West Fourth Street, has a Long Island City offshoot where Tommy Ledden’s bar stool resides and window seats offer a view of the marathon course. He’s an old-neighborhood guy in a new-neighborhood bar.The invasion of the Manhattanites has not bothered Ledden one bit.“They’re all nice people,” he said. “Everyone I’ve met.”Next, it is the marathoners’ turn to invade Manhattan.We’ve made a series of turns during our two miles in Queens. Left on 48th Avenue off the Pulaski Bridge. Right on Vernon Boulevard, past those restaurants. Right on 44th Drive, a quiet stretch. Left on Crescent Street, where we can see the back of the giant Silvercup sign. This is the bakery-turned-studio where TV shows like “30 Rock” and “Gossip Girl” are filmed.The taxing turns during miles past are catching up with us. The incline on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was actually longer than this one, but we barely noticed it back then. The road up the Queensboro, though, seems endless. Legs start aching. Arms grow weary from pushing the wheelchair.We are on the lower level of the bridge, and while the views of the East River, Manhattan and Roosevelt Island below are nice, there is a slight sensation of being in a darkened tunnel. After miles of rousing spectator support, there is nobody around now, only the pitter-patter of our fellow marathoners’ footsteps. It can get a little lonely.Then there is this daunting thought: still more than 10 miles to go.But just as quickly as it formed, the cloud begins to lift. The climb up the bridge is complete and we are descending into Manhattan. There’s a faint sound up ahead that is gradually getting louder.Our legs start to recover a bit, and that sound is now a rising roar. We’re gliding downhill now, almost there.And then we reach the source of that sound: swarms of well-wishers welcoming us to Manhattan as if we were a gold medal marathoner entering the Olympic Stadium.We suddenly find ourselves the toast of an Upper East Side parade. Our spirits lift and our legs feel lighter.F. Scott Fitzgerald’s passage from “The Great Gatsby” finally rings true. “The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge is always the city seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.”Only 10 miles to go. All is groovy.The New York City Marathon is steeped in the city’s popular culture, and no part of the course is more celebrated and packed with spectators than the Upper East Side.As they exit the Queensboro Bridge, athletes swing a hairpin turn onto 59th Street and into a wall of sound from the crowd. They pass the restaurant Uncorked on the right. “Mile 16 is in our blood,” said the manager, Paul Murdock, whose patrons also have mimosas in their blood.Marathoners quickly hang a left on First Avenue, where they settle in for a straight-arrow 3.4-mile joy ride.The residential towers here dwarf the churches and their chance to serve as beacons, but a sharp-eyed runner may catch some of the nice details etched into the entrance of the Church of St. John Nepomucene at 66th Street.Police barricades line this portion of the course because the rowdy crowds on both sides can run four to five people deep. Brunchers with a view cheer from restaurants, and support rains down from fire escapes and balconies.Plenty of runners are whooping it up, too, as the party atmosphere reaches a fever pitch.Fred Lebow would love it.The marathon parade continues up First Avenue as marathoners pass the Mile 17 marker around 77th Street.There is a gentle uptick in elevation until 85th Street, where a special vista is revealed: a sea of human heads bouncing up and down, straight ahead and as far as the eye can see.A runner can get lost in the hypnotic visual and perhaps take comfort in the knowledge that the heads rest atop other weary and aching bodies. It’s a collective pain. And it is a relief — fleeting, of course — to see no inclines or turns in the viewable future, just downhill and flat terrain.A cookie, maybe later on. For now, we’ll have to settle for that gel station at Mile 18.By the time the masses begin the 19th mile around East 97th Street, elite runners will have been resting comfortably for some time beyond the finish, perhaps enjoying lunch or a nice massage.There is a fair chance that during this fast, flat portion of the course, the winner is engaged in a brutal race strategy known as the surge. As if 4-minute-50-second miles were not fast enough over the entire race, a man might throw in a sub-4:30 around here in hopes of breaking up the pack or demoralizing an opponent who had thus far seemed in command. Many fine high school athletes dream of running 4:30 for a single mile, let alone tossing one in at Mile 19.But that stuff happens in the morning. It’s the afternoon now, and as runners enter East Harlem, the corridor effect of residential towers lining First Avenue begins to dissipate. There are more low-rise apartments and public housing complexes, along with a sprinkling of snazzy condos.But wise is the spectator who watches from the other side of First Avenue, on the runners’ left. There, up by 117th, you can grab some pizza from Patsy’s (“There ain’t nothin’ like that,” Frank Sinatra once said). Patsy’s, which opened in 1933, is a tasty reminder of the neighborhood’s Italian past.After screaming kind words to the marathoners between bites, cheerleaders can stroll over to Fifth Avenue to see them again after they return from the Bronx.That double dose of support can lift the spirits of marathoners whose bodies are beginning to cry, “Enough!”We are here today to defend the honor of the Willis Avenue Bridge.This span, which connects Manhattan to the Bronx about halfway between Miles 19 and 20, has something of a reputation among marathoners. It is, many memories recall, a carpeted pathway into a brick wall.Second, there’s no law saying you’re going to hit the wall. Many marathoners who do long practice runs, keep a measured pace in the early miles and take in some calories during the race experience no such thing, at least at Mile 20. And many of those who do will come back to finish with gusto.Geoffrey Mutai, the 2011 winner, used the bridge as a springboard, going on to scorch the final 10 kilometers and win in a course-record time of 2 hours 5 minutes 6 seconds (about 4:46 per mile).Marathoners glide straight onto the bridge at East 126th Street, ending the First Avenue phase of the race. To the left is a series of little bridges spanning the Harlem River, including the Madison Avenue Bridge, which carries marathoners back into Manhattan. To the right is the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge (formerly the Triborough), a three-bridge complex that goes to Randalls Island and then either to the Bronx or Queens.And straight ahead is the Bronx. The first five-borough race, in 1976, barely touched a toe in the Bronx, which at the time was becoming a symbol of urban blight.Today, the Bronx portion is full of zigs and zags, funky signs and heartfelt spectator support.Thanks for the lift, dear Willis Avenue Bridge.Left. Right. Left-right-left. And-a-left-and-a-right.Professional runners and Boston Marathon aspirants may not appreciate lots of turns, but marathoners who had their fill of straight-ahead running on First Avenue may just love the Bronx. Where else in the race do you run the corners around a Western Beef supermarket?Here, runners will encounter the perfect autumn atmosphere, with changing trees, music and supportive crowds.Just past the Greater Central Baptist Church, on 132nd Street, there is a new brunch spot called Shell’s Bistro, which doubles as a real estate brokerage. Here, the food servers are also brokers, said the owner, Andrew Shell. So patrons can order two eggs and two bedrooms while cheering on the runners.The course swings around one of the best parks in Harlem, Marcus Garvey Park, a shady bit of nature with rocky outcroppings. The race jogs around the park and back onto Fifth Avenue for the continuing southward march.Museum Mile awaits.After a little jog around the lovely Marcus Garvey Park, the marathon route returns to Fifth Avenue.Now it’s a straight shot down Fifth.At 110th Street, a roundabout called Duke Ellington Circle serves as an introduction to Central Park. There’s a statue of the jazz great Ellington to the right.The first site along Central Park is the Harlem Meer, which dominates the vista to the right. Water, willow tree, ducks, geese. Forget about the pain, and check out the meer.And there’s the Mile 23 mark.Barely five kilometers to go. For a well-trained marathoner, a 5K is a nap in the park, a speed workout.But this is no ordinary 5K. It is the final three-plus miles of the New York City Marathon, and by now, after 23 miles on the road, muscles are screaming.The next mile is almost entirely uphill. It’s not a severe incline, and it isn’t something that would faze a fresh runner. But this final stretch of Fifth Avenue and the rolling hills in Central Park offer an extra challenge on this memorable ride.A couple of blocks later, also on the right, is Girls’ Gate, one of the 20 named entrances to the park. They were part of the original park plan, but the names were not chiseled until the second half of the 1900s. Did I mention that we’re going uphill?On the left side of Fifth, the cultural hits keep coming. The Jewish Museum is housed in the former Warburg Mansion at 92nd Street. A block later is the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, in Andrew Carnegie’s 64-room mansion.At 90th Street, with the familiar roundness of the Guggenheim Museum sticking out a couple of blocks ahead, the race angles into Central Park.The road curves to the right at the bottom of the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir, and the back of the mammoth Metropolitan Museum of Art comes into view. So does the Mile 24 marker.Two to go, and then some.Perhaps you have visited Central Park, or maybe you’re a New Yorker who runs there regularly. Regardless, the park feels different right now. There is temporary lining on either side of the road, creating a slight tunnel effect, and the crowds and sounds and disorientation from having run so far can make familiar places seem foreign.The course turns right into Central Park, and soon the Mile 26 marker will signal that there is just 385 yards to go. Months of sacrifice come down to this. It’s a bit of an uphill now, and the finish line finally comes into sight. Just a little ... more ... to go ... and …You did it.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS