AdvertisementSupported byHOUSTON — There was the game on the field, and there was the one watched through the political prism of these times.On social media, the Atlanta Falcons were not just the N.F.C. champions, they were stand-ins for anti-Trump ferment, coming from a staunchly Democratic city and facing a Patriots team whose owner, head coach and starting quarterback are all friends with the president, to varying degrees.“Falcons are fun and their biggest stars aren’t pro Trump,” JayZito wrote on Twitter. “I’m a Falcons fan today.”25 PhotosChang W. Lee/The New York TimesVice President Mike Pence attended the game and drew some boos when he was shown on a stadium screen talking with James Baker, who served as secretary of state under former President George Bush. Mr. Bush did the opening coin toss from a wheelchair on the field, accompanied by the former first lady Barbara Bush.A succession of commercials with themes of inclusion, immigration and multiculturalism were seen by many viewers as commentary on Trump’s executive orders restricting immigration and his calls for a wall along the Mexican border.The actor Morgan Freeman appeared in a commercial for Turkish Airlines, speaking about “bridging worlds and finding delight in our differences.”Before, during and after the game, people talked about an ad for the construction-supply company 84 Lumber that featured imagery of a Mexican mother and daughter on a journey north for a better life in the United States. The company deleted some scenes depicting a border wall but included the full ad on its website.The right-wing website Breitbart News, in its live coverage of the game, grew exasperated.“These commercials have been a bonanza of leftist activism: two immigration commercials, a feminist commercial, now an eco wacko commercial? Am I missing anything?” one of the editors wrote.About the only aspect of the game that generated a surprisingly more muted political discussion than expected was the one everybody seemed to think would cause a stir: the halftime show by Lady Gaga, a persistent critic of Mr. Trump.With a dash of patriotic imagery — red and blue drones forming the shape of the United States — she mostly stuck to her hits, with only a few gestures that some interpreted as subtle digs at the president.During her song “Million Reasons” she hugged a woman of uncertain ethnicity and sang, “Why don’t you stay,” a move that people on Twitter thought was a statement about race and immigration.The N.F.L. tried in its own way to unify the country for a few hours.Fans at the stadium were given small flags to wave during the singing of the national anthem, and when the teams ran onto the field, they were led by soldiers and sailors holding large American flags. The league even ran a 60-second commercial called “Inside These Lines” to show that “the power of football” can “bring people together.”Still, outside the stadium it was another story.Atlanta, the capital of a solidly red state, was suddenly adopted as a darling of left-leaning football fans. One commenter on Twitter joked, “The Falcons respect an independent judiciary,” a dig at the president’s criticism of the federal judge in Seattle who temporarily halted the refugee ban.After the game, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Patriots, reiterated his vow not to attend the customary congratulatory ceremony at the White House, because he opposes Mr. Trump.“What an amazing comeback and win by the Patriots,’’ he wrote on Twitter. “Tom Brady, Bob Kraft and Coach B are total winners. Wow!”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS