AdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesA battle over pleasure has broken out. On Twitter and in the pages of scientific journals, psychologists, neurologists and neuroscientists are forging alliances over the question of whether pleasure we get from art is somehow different from the pleasure we get from candy, sex or drugs.She offered up an unconventional solution: art, which she says engages us in ways these other pleasures do not and can “help overwrite the detrimental effects of dysfunctional urges and craving.”The paper struck a nerve with some of her fellow art and pleasure researchers, who published a rebuttal last month in the same journal. The idea that the way that art engages the brain is somehow special has been around for far too long and it is time to kill it off once and for all, they insist.The arguments over Dr. Christensen’s paper pointed to disputes within the emerging field of neuroaesthetics, or the study of the neural processes underlying our appreciation and the production of beautiful objects and artworks:■ On Team 1 you’ll find the argument that the experience of pleasure from art is neurobiologically identical to the experience of pleasure from candy or sex.■ Team 2 believes that both making and appreciating art can offer unique neurobiological rewards.■ Team 3 asks, “Who knows?!” (“Who cares?!” seems to be a subset of this group.)Given that pleasure is known to be a powerful motivator of human behavior, it’s a dispute with implications far beyond art — at least according to Team 1 and Team 2.There are some core elements that all sides seem to agree on:■ As with wine, how much people enjoy art seems to be affected by contextual cues like price or the reputation of the creator.■ Art is difficult but possible to define. (Definitions vary, however.)■ Across cultures, what people perceive as beautiful is less consistent with artwork than it is with architecture, landscapes and faces. (Faces are the most consistent.)What researchers do not agree on is whether enjoying a da Vinci engages a different neural process than enjoying a visit to Pornhub or McDonald’s.Dr. Nadal, speaking for Team 1, said in an interview that “humans appear to use only one pleasure system to assess how pleasurable or unpleasurable a sensory experience is.” He calls this discovery “one of the most important insights to emerge from the last 15 years of neuroscience,” and believes it shows that while enjoying Cheez-Its or a sculpture may feel different, in our brains they are processed the same way.Others who study pleasure are not convinced.“Talking in terms of shared neural systems is foolish,” said Paul Bloom, a psychology professor at Yale University and author of the book “How Pleasure Works: The New Science of Why We Like What We Like.”He thinks that “art scratches all kinds of itches.” While watching “The Sopranos” or parallel parking a car are all done by the brain, he says that doesn’t mean they are the same.“I know these projects are totally irrational, totally useless,” the conceptual artist Christo has said about his $16.8 million project “The Floating Piers.” Some researchers would point to science to say that’s not true — its benefits are special.This “high-level pleasure” requires more scientific investigation. But given that we spend our lives chasing pleasures, she argues, why not try to better understand one of the few that “do not induce states of craving without fulfillment,” or cause health problems and instead make “you think and experience things differently.”All of this may lead you to ask: If pleasures are so similar, why don’t people ever orgasm from pleasure associated with food or art? Actually some do.She cannot yet say why, which lends support to the broader notion that “there is really so much we as scientists still don’t understand about pleasure.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS