AdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingNathan Adrian broke out of a shooting slump with a career-high 22 points, and No. 10 West Virginia beat No. 1 Baylor, 89-68, on Tuesday night in the Bears’ first game in program history as the top-ranked team.Baylor (15-1, 3-1 Big 12) committed a season-high 29 turnovers and never led in its second true road game of the season. West Virginia (14-2, 3-1) started the second half with an 11-3 run and at one point led by 26.The office released the results of an autopsy a day after the body of Hankins, 19, was found. She was recruited out of Lawrence North High School in Indianapolis and averaged 3.6 points in 11 games this season.Dennis Schroder had 19 points and 10 assists, Dwight Howard added 14 points and 16 rebounds, and the Atlanta Hawks won their season-high seventh straight game with a 117-97 victory over the Nets at Barclays Center. Brook Lopez scored 20 points for the Nets, who have lost seven straight and 12 of their last 13.The rosters for the N.H.L. All-Star Game are brimming with top-shelf talent, although they lack an unusual fan-picked favorite like John Scott.The rookies Auston Matthews and Patrik Laine were among the 40 players selected for the N.H.L.’s All-Star weekend, which will be held Jan. 27-29 in Los Angeles. The game format will again be a three-on-three tournament featuring teams from each of the N.H.L.’s four divisions.The Pacific Division won the tournament last year, but the weekend was dominated by the unlikely story of Scott. A journeyman enforcer, he scored two goals in the tournament and was voted the most valuable player after a grass-roots online campaign by fans to vote him in as a captain.Manchester United closed in on the final of the English League Cup by beating injury-hit Hull, 2-0, in the first leg of their semifinal thanks to second-half goals by Juan Mata and Marouane Fellaini. The second leg is at Hull on Jan. 26, and United is a huge favorite to reach the final for a ninth time.Rocco B. Commisso, chief executive of Mediacom Communications Corporation and a former soccer player at Columbia, bought a majority ownership stake in the team, in the second-tier North American Soccer League, and will become the club’s chairman.The Cosmos have been playing at Hofstra’s Shuart Stadium. Commisso said the team had started discussions to play at MCU Park in Brooklyn, home of the Mets’ Class A team in the New York-Penn League, or at Columbia, which renamed its soccer stadium after him in 2013.Frida Hansdotter, the defending World Cup slalom champion, convincingly won the last race in the discipline ahead of next month’s world championships.Hansdotter lost almost four-tenths of a second off her commanding first-run lead but still finished 0.58 of a second ahead of Nina Loeseth in Lachau, Austria.Mikaela Shiffrin, the reigning Olympic champion, posted the fastest second-run time to share third place with Wendy Holdener, 0.78 of a second off the lead.A Michigan doctor accused of sexually abusing gymnasts was sued by 18 women and girls, the latest legal action over alleged assaults, mostly at his clinic at Michigan State.The lawsuit against Dr. Larry Nassar, Michigan State, U.S.A. Gymnastics and a Lansing-area gymnastics club was filed in federal court in western Michigan. It makes claims of civil rights violations, discrimination and negligence.Rachael Denhollander, a 32-year-old former gymnast, said she was assaulted by Nassar while seeing him for wrist and back injuries at age 15 in 2000. She said she did not file a complaint at the time because she believed her “voice would not be heard.”Almost five months after the Rio de Janeiro Olympics ended, another venue is struggling to find a use. Rio’s city hall said that the Deodoro Olympic Park, which was to be used as a park and recreation area after the Games, had been closed.Deodoro was the second-largest venue cluster during the Olympics. It held equestrian, rugby and field hockey events, among others.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS