AdvertisementThe major league clubhouse is a sanctuary, a player’s retreat from the gawking eyes of the thousands of fans in attendance and the millions more on social media who examine his every step daily.Over the last year, though, some players have become particularly careful even when they are in that 25-man hideaway.And yet the player may not have had to act that secretively. Although similar laws against use of smokeless tobacco now extend to 12 major league stadiums outside New York, there is no evidence that municipalities are trying to closely monitor tobacco use inside clubhouses or that they are attempting to fine players for violating any of the recent legislation.AdvertisementHowever, Major League Baseball, which supports the bans, is doing monitoring of its own and said it has acted when it has perceived that a player has violated the local laws. First-time violators receive a written warning along with a referral to the doctor now being used as a consultant to help players to stop using smokeless tobacco. A second violation brings a fine consistent with those listed in the local ordinances.AdvertisementMajor League Baseball said fines had been issued but would not say how many. The fines called for in the local ordinances — sometimes just in the hundreds of dollars — are small by baseball standards.Still, baseball officials and the local authorities seem to be hoping that perhaps more than any fines, the publicity generated by the new laws will paint a starker picture of smokeless tobacco and serve as a stronger deterrent to its use — and not only among major leaguers.“The bigger goal is about ending the influence on young people,” said Rick Coca, a spokesman for José Huizar, the Los Angeles city councilman who introduced the smokeless tobacco legislation there. “And that’s going to occur over time, not overnight,” he added.A study released in 2014 by the Professional Baseball Athletic Trainers Society estimated that as many as one-third of major league players used smokeless tobacco, long a staple of baseball culture. These days, observation of various clubhouses suggests that the figure might be a little high. Before recent games at Citi Field and Yankee Stadium, one team had at least four players with smokeless tobacco containers in the clubhouse; other teams had no visible usage.Nevertheless, a number of players said they viewed the new laws as an invasion of personal rights.“There still isn’t 100 percent clarity in terms of who’s going to be enforcing it,” said Granderson, who also sits on the board of the players’ union. “Is it the Citi Field law enforcement? Is it going to be the police? Is it going to be the New York State Police? Is it going to be Major League Baseball? If someone in the dugout — like we have security there for our protection — if they see a player that’s using smokeless tobacco, are they going to slap them with a ticket at that time?”AdvertisementOne player who uses smokeless tobacco thought the law created an unnecessary burden for players who should be focused on baseball rather than the risk of becoming scofflaws.“I do definitely look around,” said the player, who requested anonymity because he had played at Citi Field. “Like, are there any cameras on me?”A spokeswoman for the New York mayor, Bill de Blasio, said city enforcement of the smokeless-tobacco ban was complaint-based; anyone can file a complaint by calling 311. The law falls under the Smoke-Free Air Act, which also bans smoking and electronic cigarette use in bars, restaurants, workplaces and other locations.“Enforcement has consistently focused on owners/operators, rather than smokers,” the spokeswoman wrote in an email. “We haven’t received any complaints or fined any players.”In New York, Citi Field and Yankee Stadium are required to post signs informing patrons and players of the ban on smokeless tobacco. At Yankee Stadium, smokeless tobacco is prohibited throughout the ballpark. At Citi Field, there is a twist: Smokeless tobacco is allowed in three designated locations that are inside the ticket turnstiles but outside the stadium walls.Enforcement and penalties for the use of smokeless tobacco vary by city. In Boston, the city police handle citations and violations, although Lt. Detective Michael P. McCarthy said that none had been issued.In San Francisco, the law is enforced by the police department and public health officials, according to Jess Montejano, a legislative aide for Mark Farrell, the board supervisor who introduced that city’s smokeless tobacco legislation in 2015. Montejano said he believed that no player had been fined at AT&T Park, home of the San Francisco Giants.Advertisement“The law is really supposed to act as a deterrent to chewing, which it seems it has,” Montejano wrote in an email.Similarly, no fines have been handed out in Washington, where the local health department is responsible for enforcement, or in Los Angeles, where the police administer the law, according to officials from both cities.When the first laws were enacted in recent years, there was some belief that managers would be asked to warn players who continued to use smokeless tobacco.Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That may not be the case, however. Miami Marlins Manager Don Mattingly, who used smokeless tobacco sporadically throughout his playing and managerial career, has not made enforcement a pressing issue.“I haven’t even paid attention, honestly,” Mattingly said. “That’s a political issue, really, in my mind. I don’t like politics that much.”When Yankees Manager Joe Girardi was asked whether his players were abiding by the ban, he said: “I don’t sit around and check on them. But they’re reminded, just like with all the other rules that we have.”Under the sport’s collective bargaining agreement, rookies called up to the major leagues this season are not allowed to use smokeless tobacco in any ballpark, regardless of whether there is a local ban. And use of smokeless tobacco in the minor leagues, where few players are covered by the union, has been banned since 1993.Major League Baseball also offers cessation programs for players who want to stop using smokeless tobacco. Dr. Michael B. Steinberg, director of Rutgers University’s tobacco-dependence program, is a consultant and the doctor to whom first-time violators are referred.AdvertisementAlternatives to the stimulant effect offered by smokeless tobacco have emerged, too — most prominently, the coffee-grind pouches that are being marketed to players.One theory, perhaps an optimistic one, is that once the current generation of players leaves the game, baseball will move close to being tobacco-free because the new players filtering in will be under a total ballpark ban.One who thinks that will occur, and fairly quickly, is Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an advocacy group based in Washington that has led the charge for instituting local bans. “The goal is culture change,’’ he said. “By 2019, at the latest, it will be a very rare sight to see any player using smokeless tobacco. It will be essentially gone from the game by then.”Billy Witz contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingSix weeks away from competition did not keep Dustin Johnson from extending one streak Thursday, with hopes of adding to another. Johnson showed more game than rust at the Wells Fargo Championship, where he missed only two greens — and plenty of putts — for a two-under-par 70 that left him four shots behind the leader Francesco Molinari at blustery Eagle Point Golf Club in Wilmington, N.C. It was Johnson’s 13th consecutive round at par or better.Johnson was not as flawless as he looked while winning three straight tournaments, though he had few complaints under the circumstances. It was his first time playing since he slipped in his socks down the stairs at his rental house in Augusta, Ga., hurting his back and knocking himself out of the Masters.“Since I hadn’t played in so long, I’m happy with the way I played,” Johnson said. “I didn’t score that great, didn’t really hole that many putts, but other than that, I played really well. I think I hit 16 greens, and I hit the ball great.”On greens that were slightly softer and as pure as can be, Molinari ran off five birdies in a seven-hole stretch on the front nine and closed out his round with a 20-foot birdie putt on the par-5 18th. That gave him a one-shot lead over Alex Noren of Sweden, J. B. Holmes, Grayson Murray and Brian Campbell.Marcus Rashford scored from a free kick in the second half as Manchester United beat Celta Vigo, 1-0, in the first leg of their Europa League semifinal in Vigo, Spain. Rashford, who netted an extra-time winner against Anderlecht in the quarterfinals, drove a right-foot strike over the wall and into the top corner in the 67th minute, securing United the advantage going into the second leg in Manchester, England, next week.The five-time Olympian Kerri Walsh Jennings is looking for a new partner — and a new beach volleyball tour — after rejecting an exclusivity agreement with the AVP. The deal would have locked her into the circuit through the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo. In her first public comments since breaking with the tour, Walsh Jennings said that the deal was “a death sentence for our sport.” The decision to opt out of the AVP tour also means Walsh Jennings will split with April Ross, her partner in Rio de Janeiro, where they won the Olympic bronze medal.Pittsburgh Penguins captain Sidney Crosby is skating again, but Coach Mike Sullivan provided no update on when his star would be ready to return from a concussion. Crosby sat out Pittsburgh’s 3-2 victory on Wednesday night in Game 4 of its Eastern Conference semifinal against Washington. His second concussion of the season was diagnosed after Crosby took a crosscheck in the head from Capitals defenseman Matt Niskanen. Sullivan said Crosby was “in the process of rehabbing” but declined to answer when asked if there was a chance that Crosby would play in Washington on Saturday.Basketball enthusiasts around the world said a decision to allow players to wear religious headgear in competition would encourage more people to play the sport because it would give participants the right to practice their faith while playing ball. The unanimous vote by international basketball’s governing body, known as FIBA, will allow female players to wear hijabs and male players to wear turbans or skullcaps, overturning a ban imposed for safety reasons 20 years ago.A jury has ruled that the former University of Iowa athletic administrator Jane Meyer was the victim of discrimination, retaliation and unequal pay and awarded her $1.4 million in total damages. Meyer alleged she had suffered workplace discrimination as a gay woman in a relationship with the field hockey coach Tracey Griesbaum, that the university had retaliated against her for complaining about Griesbaum’s firing and that she had been paid less than a male counterpart for similar work.After a two-hour rain delay in the fourth inning, the Mets’ game against the Braves in Atlanta was postponed. A makeup date will be announced at a later date, and the game will be played from scratch.Thursday’s game was paused with the Mets leading, 3-1. Zack Wheeler threw 68 pitches over three innings and allowed one run on three hits. JAMES WAGNERAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS