AdvertisementSupported byOn SoccerMOSCOW — Half a million fans — by current, suspiciously optimistic, estimates — will descend on Russia next year for what Gianni Infantino, the FIFA president, has already decreed will be the “best” World Cup in history.Every single fan, he has decided, will have “an amazing experience.” Billions of dollars have been spent on new, or renovated, stadiums to host the finest players in the world: Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi, Neymar and Kylian Mbappé. Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, on Friday promised a “major sporting festival of friendship and fair play.”And now, at last, we know how it will all kick off. This great celebration of soccer, this era-defining event, the most watched sporting event in the world, will get underway at Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium on June 14, with the almost elemental collision of the 63rd- and 65th-best teams the planet can offer.Applause rippled across the floor of the hall at the Kremlin State Palace when it was confirmed that Saudi Arabia — officially the weakest of all the teams who had to qualify for next year’s World Cup, according to FIFA’s rankings — would face Russia, officially the weakest of all the teams in next year’s World Cup, in the tournament’s opening game.It might have been relief from the locals in the crowd, of course: there has been no little concern here that Russia’s team is so poor that it might do what the revelations of the ongoing FIFA corruption trial in New York and the allegations of widespread state-sponsored doping could not: make Putin regret bringing the World Cup here in the first place.Still, the applause felt odd, misplaced. By almost any measure, Russia-Saudi Arabia is an anticlimax of an opening game: the weakest, in terms of the rankings of the two teams, in World Cup history. It is not the sort of game that lived up to the absurd, gaudy pomp of the ceremony that preceded it, complete with a traditional Russian dance troupe.But it is fitting, given how the rest of the draw panned out. For the first time, FIFA had changed the way the World Cup groups were drawn, pooling teams according to their ranking, rather than on a geographical basis. The move’s main effect was to protect most of the tournament favorites from meeting one another.Indeed, only in two groups are notional heavyweights drawn together: Spain meets Portugal in Group B, while Belgium encounters England in Group G. The prospect of drama in either group, though, was quelled when the identities of their other opponents were revealed. Spain and Portugal will expect to get past Morocco and Iran; England and Belgium should be too strong for Tunisia and Panama, a World Cup debutante. In the head-to-head games, nobody should suffer a knockout blow.France, Brazil and Germany did even better. It is a convention among athletes and coaches alike that you never risk belittling an opponent — pretty much every coach who faced the news media after the draw uttered some variation on the phrase “there is no such thing as an easy game” — but for those three, in particular, it must have been tempting to break it.All three have precisely the sorts of groups that they would have drawn for themselves: Peru, Australia and Denmark for the French; Serbia, Switzerland and Costa Rica for Brazil; Mexico, Sweden and South Korea in with the reigning champion, Germany.Of all the top seeds, in fact, only Argentina had cause to leave Moscow a little dispirited. Jorge Sampaoli’s team stuttered through qualifying, its fearsome attack blunted surprisingly — and troublingly — easily until Lionel Messi conjured a hat trick in Ecuador to ensure his country would go to Russia. Still, its fragile confidence could have done without the prospect of Croatia, Nigeria and Iceland lurking in Group D.That such a lineup could constitute the toughest of all the groups is indicative of the other major change — one not effected, at least directly by FIFA — that influenced the way the draw played out.Qualifying for this tournament proved, decisively, that there has been a shift in the nature of international soccer. Italy, the Netherlands, Chile and the United States are not here; Iceland, Peru and Panama are. Major nations can no longer coast into the World Cup. Smaller countries, with a decent crop of players, a gifted coach, and a sense of purpose, can overturn the odds.The change has made for some wonderful stories over the last two years, but this was its flip side: a tournament short on groups of death and seismic encounters between superpowers.As Gareth Southgate, the England manager, rightly said, it is when the draw is over that “everything comes alive.” It is when fans start to map out where their team will go, and whom it might face in the knockout rounds, when a black-and-white tournament is flooded with color.This is a little different. The 2018 World Cup has the look of a slow-burner. The first two weeks will be intriguing, rather than explosive; some of the lesser lights will have a moment to shine. Only in the latter stages will the fireworks start. FIFA is unlikely to object to a tournament that, if things go to form, could throw up quarterfinals between Portugal and France, Brazil and England, Spain and Argentina and Germany and Colombia.It is an approach with just one attendant danger. All tournaments hinge on how the host country copes when its team is eliminated. If it loses interest, the event itself can lose some of its fizz.That is a particular risk with Russia, where official support for the World Cup is rooted in a desire to project national pride, and power, to the world. If that wanes, the electricity of the tournament might go with it. “Russia is warm and welcoming,” Infantino said. “Everyone will be able to celebrate football with the Russian people.” The question, apart from what “everyone” means, is how long that will last.So perhaps the applause that greeted confirmation of the opening game was not from the Russians, but from FIFA. Russia is in a group with Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Uruguay. Not a cakewalk, by any means, but not a Calvary, either. Enough, certainly, to reassure the host that it will not be thrown out of its own party too early.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOnce again, superstars under chemical clouds — Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens, Manny Ramirez, Sammy Sosa — will appear on the ballots sent this week to voting members of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. But there are also 19 new candidates to consider, none with strong ties to the scourge of their era.Plenty of other holdover candidates remain on the ballot, too, including seven who got at least half the 75 percent of votes needed for election last winter: Trevor Hoffman (74 percent), Vladimir Guerrero (71.7), Edgar Martinez (58.6), Clemens (54.1), Bonds (53.8), Mike Mussina (51.8) and Curt Schilling (45).Most of the newcomers will slip off the ballot after one try; candidates must receive 5 percent of the vote to remain. Before they depart, here’s a memory or insight for each newcomer to the voting.There was no in-between with Carpenter across his time with the St. Louis Cardinals from 2003 to 2012: he was either awesome or injured. In four of those seasons, Carpenter didn’t win a game. In the other six, he was 50 games over .500 with a Cy Young Award and two World Series championships.Let’s bundle some stats to make the effervescent Damon as appealing a candidate as possible. He had 2,769 hits, 235 homers and 408 steals. How many players in history exceed him in all three categories? Only Barry Bonds, Rickey Henderson and Craig Biggio. Few players could beat you as many ways as Damon could, and even fewer had as much fun doing it.Before Yu Darvish, there was Livan Hernandez. Like Darvish, who was flattened twice by Houston in the World Series for the Dodgers, Hernandez also was thumped in two outings in the same Series, Games 3 and 7 as a Giant in 2002. For the Hernandez family, though, it might have just been an Angels thing. Livan and his half brother, the ex-Yankee Orlando Hernandez, were 0-3 in their postseason careers against the Angels but 16-3 against everyone else.For a few years, the Hall of Fame had an awkward habit of reaching for nicknames to put on plaques. Joseph Paul Torre is called “Joe” under his full name, while Joseph Paul DiMaggio is not. Likewise, James Edward Rice is called “Jim,” while James Alvin Palmer is not. Anyway, Hudson, a second baseman who won Gold Gloves for three teams, will probably not get a single vote for Cooperstown. But it would be cool to see a real baseball nickname — “O-Dog” — etched in bronze.In 1983, when Huff was 6, his father was shot to death in a dispute at the apartment complex where he worked as an electrician. A man had shot his wife and tried to shoot the apartment manager. Huff’s father pushed the manager out of the way and was killed. Huff’s mother, Fonda, raised him and his sister in Mineral Wells, Tex., while working in the meat department of a grocery store and studying to be a teacher. “I told my mom one day I wanted to be a professional baseball player — probably, what, 8 years old, 9 years old,” Huff said. “And she bought me a batting cage on a Winn-Dixie salary.” Huff was speaking in Arlington, Tex., some 60 miles from Mineral Wells, after hitting a homer for the Giants in the 2010 World Series.With Bill Pulsipher and Paul Wilson, Isringhausen was part of Generation K, the much-hyped trio of young starters who gave hope to Mets fans in the desolate mid-1990s. All three pitchers were largely undone by injuries, but Isringhausen remade himself as a closer and collected 300 saves, though only eight for the Mets. In the end, Generation K combined for 1,651 strikeouts — exactly the career total of Vic Willis, a turn-of-the-century right-hander for the Boston Beaneaters. It took 85 years after his final game, but Willis finally made it to Cooperstown in 1995.Like Dale Murphy in the 1980s, Jones starred in center field while playing for the Braves in his 20s. Also like Murphy, Jones plunged sharply around age 31 and never recovered. He never had 300 at-bats in a season after turning 31, which was Murphy’s age in 1987, his last year as an elite player. Murphy wound up with an .815 on-base plus slugging percentage, five Gold Gloves and two M.V.P. awards. Jones finished with a .823 O.P.S., 10 Gold Gloves and no M.V.P. awards. The writers never gave Murphy more than 23.2 percent of the vote.It is true that Jones, a Mets nemesis, named his son Shea. It is also true that he bought two seats from Shea Stadium and put them in the boy’s bedroom. But how did Jones really do at the Mets’ old ballpark? He hit .313 with 19 home runs, his most in any visiting stadium, and then added three homers at Citi Field. Impressive, for sure, but Jones actually did even more damage in Philadelphia: he hit .350 with 13 home runs at Veterans Stadium, and connected 11 more times at Citizens Bank Park.Just a few whiff-crazy years since his retirement, it’s striking to see a career like Lee’s: in 14 seasons as a power hitter, he never struck out 100 times. That’s the kind of steady, forceful contact we see from few sluggers besides Albert Pujols, who led the majors in runs batted in from 2002 through 2009, when Lee was in his prime. Lee ranks fifth in R.B.I. in those seasons, with 843, trailing only Pujols, Alex Rodriguez, David Ortiz and Mark Teixeira. He shouldn’t get a Hall of Fame vote, but he was a much better hitter than we probably remember.The Phillies have won two World Series. In the first, a lefty closer wearing No. 45 struck out a righty hitter for the final out. In the second, a righty closer wearing No. 54 struck out a lefty hitter for the final out. Even the years were reversed: ’80 for the first title, ’08 for the second. Tug McGraw, the 1980 pitcher, later worked on local TV for WPVI in Philadelphia. Lidge, the 2008 pitcher, has a national radio gig for SiriusXM.When Matsui joined the Yankees in 2003, he took all the beat writers out to dinner during spring training in Tampa, Fla. None of us could remember another player ever doing something like this. The next spring the writers took Matsui to dinner, and we continued the tradition, alternating each year. As a superstar in Japan, Matsui was in constant demand for interviews in two languages, yet he was readily available to all, with grace and good humor. There is no cheering in the press box, but when Matsui finished his Yankees career as M.V.P. of the 2009 World Series, you had to be happy for him.Can you name Millwood’s team for each of these career accomplishments? (The answers are below.)a) One-hitter and save in same postseason series (1999)b) Complete-game no-hitter (2003)c) League leader in E.R.A. (2005)d) Signed $60 million contract (2006)e) Led league in losses (2010)f) Started a combined no-hitter (2012)The last batter Moyer ever faced, Jay Bruce, had not been born when Moyer made his major-league debut for the Cubs in 1986. Moyer lasted through 2012, the year he turned 50, baiting hitters with some of the softest stuff in the game. What’s the fastest pitch he ever threw? “One game in Houston when I was with the Phillies, I popped an 86,” Moyer said. “How did that happen? It had to be a misread, because when I went to the dugout, three or four pitchers were like: ‘How did you do that? You threw 86!’ But I don’t know, really. The gun, for me, here’s where I got the most use out of it: to see where I was with my fastball and where I was with my changeup. What’s the variance of speed? That was important to me, and what does the swing look like to that pitch?”On Sept. 7, 1996, Rolen came to bat in the fourth inning with two outs against the Cubs’ Steve Trachsel. If Rolen put the ball in play or struck out, he would be credited with his 131st at-bat and lose his rookie status. Instead, an errant pitch broke the ulna bone in Rolen’s right arm, abruptly ending his season. The next year he was the unanimous National League Rookie of the Year, the only Phillies winner between Dick Allen in 1964 and Ryan Howard in 2005. Rolen would go on to win eight Gold Glove Awards, make seven All-Star teams and help St. Louis win the 2006 World Series.In the spring of 1989, when “Major League” was released in theaters, the Cleveland Indians’ draft was just a bit outside the norm. Their first-round choice, an outfielder named Calvin Murray, rejected them for the University of Texas. Their third-round choice, pitcher Jerry Dipoto, is now general manager of the Seattle Mariners. Two pitchers — Alan Embree (fifth round) and Curtis Leskanic (eighth round) — would help the Boston Red Sox win a World Series title in 2004. Outfielder Brian Giles (17th round) became an All-Star slugger for the Pittsburgh Pirates. But one player would go on to do so much in Cleveland that he now has a statue at the Indians’ ballpark: Thome, a 13th-rounder from Illinois Central College. He is the Indians’ franchise home run leader, with 337 of the 612 he smashed across 22 major league seasons.No shortstop has ever matched Vizquel’s longevity; his 2,709 games at the position rank first on the career list. The other leaders in games played at each infield position are catcher Ivan Rodriguez, first baseman Eddie Murray, second baseman Eddie Collins and third baseman Brooks Robinson. Among outfielders (since 1913), the games-played leaders are left fielder Barry Bonds, center fielder Willie Mays and right fielder Roberto Clemente. That’s quite a team, and all except Bonds are in the Hall of Fame.It’s nice that Wood makes the ballot, because his career is too easily viewed for what it wasn’t, instead of what it was. He was not the next Nolan Ryan, but as fire-balling, Texas-bred phenoms go, he was not the next David Clyde either. No pitcher in history may have been as dominant as Wood was, at age 20, in his 20-strikeout one-hitter for the Cubs in 1998. But he overcame injuries to become an All-Star reliever, pitched 14 seasons over all and made more than $73 million. His career was a success.In each of the last 10 years of his career, Zambrano hit at least one home run. He finished with 24 over all, and at .388, he had a higher slugging percentage than more than a dozen hitters in Cooperstown — including one, Bill Mazeroski, who homered to win a World Series. The difference, of course, is that Zambrano was a pitcher.Answers to Kevin Millwood trivia: a) Braves, b) Phillies, c) Indians, d) Rangers, e) Orioles, f) MarinersAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe three defendants on trial, facing charges of racketeering conspiracy as well as wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy, were Manuel Burga of Peru, Juan Ángel Napout of Paraguay and José Maria Marin of Brazil. Each man is a former president of his country’s soccer association, and the most serious charges that each faces carry up to 20 years in prison.With references to cash drops, “bag men,” and efforts to obstruct justice, the prosecution’s opening statement echoed the organized crime cases with which the assistant United States attorneys gathered in the courtroom had significant experience.“These defendants cheated the sport in order to line their own pockets,” Keith D. Edelman, an assistant United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said as he introduced FIFA — global soccer’s governing body — to jurors through analogies to the N.F.L. and Major League Baseball.“They used code words, hidden bank accounts all around the world, shell companies, fake contracts,” Mr. Edelman said, describing schemes through which Mr. Burga, Mr. Napout and Mr. Marin are accused of soliciting and accepting bribes from business executives in exchange for lucrative television and marketing contracts. “For over 20 years, the defendants and their co-conspirators have abused the system.”According to prosecutors, Mr. Napout accepted bribes in cash; Mr. Marin received them in a New York bank account; and Mr. Burga — wary of accepting money while under criminal investigation in Peru — accepted promises of future payments. But lawyers for the defendants contended Monday that the government, while effective at uncovering corruption, had wrongly implicated their clients.“What this case is about is a government concluding that everyone involved at high levels of soccer is dirty,” said Silvia B. Piñera-Vazquez, a lawyer for Mr. Napout. “The F.B.I. and the I.R.S. did a wonderful job,” she added, referencing what she called at least “tens of millions of dollars” spent on the federal investigation. “But they didn’t find one wire transfer of dirty money into Juan’s accounts.”Bruce L. Udolf, a lawyer for Mr. Burga, similarly credited the government for its efforts. “But they got too ambitious, used too broad a brush,” he said, distancing Mr. Burga from the scores of defendants who have entered guilty pleas in the case and the witnesses poised to testify against the three defendants in coming weeks.The defense lawyers — emphasizing the sprawling web of relationships in international soccer and the long arm of American justice — urged the jury not to jump to conclusions about their clients simply because of their associations with convicted criminals.“If you’ve ever watched kids playing soccer, there are always one or two, they’re standing there but they’re not really playing,” Charles Stillman, Mr. Marin’s lawyer, said, likening his 85-year-old client to a clueless bystander. “He is like the youngster on the side picking up daisies.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementThe Next Gen ATP Finals tournament in Milan this week has delivered on its promise to be different from tennis as usual. Whether that is for the better or worse is still up for debate.The event, created this year to showcase young talent in men’s tennis, featured seven players born in 1996 or later who earned the most ranking points during the season and one Italian wild card from the same age range. It is a lucrative exhibition. There are no ranking points awarded, but players receive $50,000 for participating. An undefeated champion would earn $390,000.Eligible players quickly bought into the concept when it was announced, with many contenders closely tracking the standings week to week. But the best young player was lured away by his own success. Third-ranked Alexander Zverev, 20, twice a champion at the Masters level this year, withdrew from the event to focus on the ATP Finals, which begin Sunday in London.His withdrawal left Andrey Rublev of Russia as the highest-ranked player in the field at No. 37. Rublev will play No. 54 Hyeon Chung of South Korea, who is undefeated so far, in the final Saturday.AdvertisementThe lack of star power did not mar the event as much as its draw ceremony did.Instead of drawing chips from a bowl, organizers instructed the young players to select a model who would then reveal a letter, A or B, on her body to determine each player’s group.AdvertisementThe first model selected hiked up her dress and pulled her garter to reveal the letter A. Another instructed a player to remove her glove with his teeth.The tennis world quickly expressed its disapproval at the crass sexualization of the event. The Hall of Famer Amélie Mauresmo called it a “disgrace,” while the French player Alizé Cornet mocked the regressive start to a showcase of innovations.The draw ceremony was co-produced by the ATP and a sponsor, Red Bull. They issued a joint apology Monday.“The intention was to integrate Milan’s rich heritage as one of the fashion capitals in the world,” the statement said. “However, our execution of the proceedings was in poor taste and unacceptable. We deeply regret this and will ensure that there is no repeat of anything like it in the future.”The tour had expected strong reactions to the event’s rules changes, not the opening ceremony.The young players tested numerous innovations that have been discussed in tennis. Most of the ideas had been tried before, but not since the creation of World TeamTennis in the 1970s have so many new concepts been used all at once.The most popular has been automated line calling. Instead of relying on human line judges whose calls can be challenged and reviewed with Hawk-Eye technology, the event puts the calls in Hawk-Eye’s hands directly. As soon as a ball lands out, there is an immediate audio recording of “Out!” played, and the word flashes on screens around the court. There has been little arguing and second-guessing of calls.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Besides no line judges, there are also fewer lines: Because it is a singles-only tournament, the court was painted without doubles alleys, which are a standard feature on most courts in the world.AdvertisementThe points themselves are also different: There is no let call on serves, which several players said was hard to get used to.Though the changes were designed to create more momentum swings in a match, many sets have been uncompetitive. So far, 24 of the 57 total sets (42.1 percent) have been won by scores of 4-0 or 4-1. Because tiebreakers remain normal length, they can feel laborious compared with the quick pace of the abbreviated set.Several other changes have been instituted to expedite play: Between points, there is a 25-second clock; players are limited to one medical timeout per match; and warm-ups are shorter, with play beginning five minutes after players walk onto the court.“It’s not just reducing time — because if a product is boring for six hours then it can be boring for six minutes,” Chris Kermode, executive chairman and president of the ATP, told reporters in Milan. “It’s about taking away the dead time, making more points matter.”The pauses that remain in the match have been layered with entertainment. Between sets, players can talk to their coaches on headsets (but only in English, and the conversations are broadcast). On-court coaching has been a feature of WTA matches since 2009, but the headset version seems to have advantages: The audio is clearer, especially on the player’s side, and keeping the coach in the stands maintains tennis’s appearance as a one-on-one sport.On Thursday, the headset provided Denis Shapovalov of Canada an opportunity to gush to his coach, Martin Laurendeau, about how much he enjoys the coffee in Milan.“Dude, I’m telling you: best coffee I’ve ever had in my life,” he said.Advertisement“The big changes — best-of-five, first-to-four, is that going to happen in the next five years?” Kermode said. “No chance, in my opinion. Can it happen in 10 years? Yeah, I think it could.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byFor a simple assignment, writing code that would allow one computer to visit web pages located on another, two students in H. E. Dunsmore’s class at Purdue University turned in nearly 100 identical lines of code. Was it a fluke? Or had they cheated?As he looked over their work, Mr. Dunsmore, a veteran computer science professor, saw what he called the smoking gun:boolean done = true;while (!done) {“This is pretty strong evidence that one had copied the other,” Mr. Dunsmore said. “They later both confessed to collusion.”College students have flooded into computer science courses across the country, recognizing them as an entree to coveted jobs at companies like Facebook and Google, not to mention the big prize: a start-up worth millions.The exploding interest in these courses, though, has coincided with an undesirable side effect: a spate of high-tech collegiate plagiarism. Students have been caught borrowing computer code from their friends or cribbing it from the internet.“There’s a lot of discussion about it, both inside a department as well as across the field,” said Randy H. Katz, a professor in the electrical engineering and computer science department at the University of California, Berkeley, who discovered in one year that about 100 of his roughly 700 students in one class had violated the course policy on collaborating or copying code.Computer science professors are now delivering stern warnings at the start of each course, and, like colleagues in other subjects, deploy software to flag plagiarism. They have unearthed numerous examples of suspected cheating.At Brown University, more than half the 49 allegations of academic code violations last year involved cheating in computer science.At Stanford, the alma mater of the founders of Google, Snapchat and countless other internet wonders, as many as 20 percent of the students in one 2015 computer science course were flagged for possible cheating.In interviews, professors and students said the causes were not hard to pin down.“You’ve got kids who were struggling with spending a third of their time on their problem sets with the option to copy from the internet,” said Jackson Wagner, who took the Harvard course in 2015 and was not accused of copying. “That’s the reason why people cheat.”Complicating matters is the collaborative ethos among programmers, which encourages code-sharing in ways that might not be acceptable in a class. Professors also frequently allow students to discuss problems among themselves, but not to share actual code, a policy that some students say creates confusion about what constitutes cheating.The executive committee at Yale, where five students were accused of copying code last fall, though a couple had charges withdrawn, acknowledged as much.“It is often such a complex task to read these guidelines,” wrote the committee chairman, Paul North, a professor of German, “that the code to be written seems simple in comparison.”Penalties can be as small as a zero on an assignment, which is what the Purdue students received; they were also docked a letter in the course’s final grade. (Dr. Dunsmore credits awareness of such penalties with a reduction in cheating in his courses over the last decade.) More serious or repeated infractions can lead to failing the course, or even suspension.“It’s mostly that a lot of computer science professors actually check,” said Alex Aiken, who heads the computer science department at Stanford.Though coding is a foreign language to most people, the principles of plagiarism are the same as with papers written in English.Sometimes it is acceptable for lines of code to be identical, if the code is performing a routine task or one that cannot be done a different way. But other times it is a red flag.struct visit_list node;node.row = row;node.col = col;node.next = NULL;Someone copying the code, he said, might render it this way:struct rooms_visited room;room.r = r;room.c = c;room.link = 0;At Harvard, David J. Malan, the CS50 professor, introduced a “regret clause,” letting students who cheat and admit it within 72 hours receive an unsatisfactory or failing grade on the assignment, and avoid further discipline — unless they do it again.Professor Malan said one reason for the large number of cases was that instructors were scrutinizing students’ work more carefully than before. He also said that since students could use the regret clause, instructors felt more comfortable going to the honor council when students had passed up that chance.He referred questions about the outcomes of the cheating complaints to a university spokeswoman, who said she could not discuss the cases because of student privacy.Two Harvard students who said they were familiar with some of the violations, and who wanted to be anonymous for fear of repercussions from the university, described one of the more blatant examples: A student submitted code using a computer language, PHP, that had been taught in a previous year, but not last fall.Some students suggested that in other cases there was a fine line between reasonable sharing and improper copying, particularly because the professor encourages students to discuss problems with one another.“There is a gray area as to how much help one can get,” said Javier Cuan-Martinez, the president of the Harvard Computer Society, who took the course two years ago.Professor Malan, in an email, said the guidelines in the course syllabus were clear. One rule says that when asking for help, you may have your code viewed by others, but you may not view theirs. “Whenever a line is actually crossed,” Professor Malan wrote, “it’s often that one.”Stephanie Saul contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe sales pitches were filled with urgency and emphasized familiarity. Act now or risk missing out on millions of dollars. Trust us because we are part of the “N.F.L. brotherhood.” “You have nothing to lose,” a former N.F.L. quarterback implored in one, “but money you’re entitled to and that you earned the hard way.”The pleadings are aimed at former N.F.L. players who stand to receive checks from the largest legal settlement in sports history, a pool of money that may top $1 billion for retirees who sued the league for lying to them about the dangers of concussions as they got their heads pounded on the field.Some players may get very little, but others with severe neurological diseases may receive as much as $5 million. Now lawyers, lenders and would-be advisers are circling, pitching their services and trying to get a cut of the money.It may be standard practice for big legal settlements, but the fact that many players are cognitively impaired and may struggle to understand the terms of the services offered to them has raised alarm among player advocates, legal ethicists and the lawyers for the players who sued the N.F.L.“I’ve been doing this litigation for a long time, there’s always been a certain amount of stuff going on, but I’ve never seen anything like this by a multiple,” said Christopher Seeger, a co-lead counsel for the players, who has received dozens of complaints from players and others about companies pitching sometimes dubious services. “There’s a sex appeal to representing N.F.L. players, and they are so identifiable, so these companies who are predatory, it is easy for them to be successful. Most of these guys are broke, so they’re vulnerable.”While some of the firms may provide valuable assistance in complicated cases, others appear to be pitching services to ex-players who don’t need their help.The rush to recruit players prompted the federal judge overseeing the legal settlement case to issue an order in April saying that N.F.L. Players Brains Matter, a company led by Fred Willis, a former running back, would no longer distribute “improper communications” to other players.In an interview, Mr. Willis said he was a longtime advocate for players and accepted no money for helping them.“I’m not being paid, and I don’t need the money,” said Mr. Willis, who played for the Bengals, the Oilers and the Broncos. “This is not going to stop me from helping my brothers, and they know where I am coming from.”The judge, Anita B. Brody, also approved a notice that warned players about companies that, according to Mr. Seeger, offer to help players “navigate what are falsely portrayed as complicated registration, medical testing and claims procedures.”Most of the claim-service providers require players to agree to share 15 percent or more of anything they receive in return for helping them with a process that the providers portray, in stark terms, as unduly complicated. They also do not always tell players that they can call court-appointed experts to receive free advice on how to file a claim, or that they can visit doctors who will provide a free neurological exam.Some lawyers have hosted dinners for former players at steakhouses to get them to sign up. Others have promised to get players appointments with doctors who will write diagnoses that make their medical conditions look worse than they are, according to players who have received pitches from some of the companies.Some lawyers have also hired former players to sign up their brethren, yet do not always disclose that the ex-players are being paid to recruit other retirees. One firm hired Joe Pisarcik, the former Giants quarterback who until recently ran the N.F.L. Alumni Association, as a pitchman. (Mr. Pisarcik did not answer telephone messages left for him.)Mr. Seeger said a few hundred of the approximately 20,000 players who are eligible appeared to have signed up for these services. But some retirees have resisted the come-ons. Walter Carter, who played defensive end for the Raiders and the Buccaneers, as well as in the U.S.F.L., has heard from at least a dozen companies pitching services.But Mr. Carter, 59, who runs a packaging company near Tampa, Fla., went on the website for the concussion settlement and realized he could file a claim on his own. Although he was annoyed by the lawyers selling services he does not need, Mr. Carter is more offended by the retired players who are doing their bidding, including Mr. Pisarcik, who pitched him.“I watch how these attorneys work, and I think it’s a crime,” Mr. Carter said. But “most of them penetrate the confidence of guys by working with other guys. It’s the ultimate betrayal.”Even players who may have taken fewer hits to the head than front-line players have been approached. Michael Husted, a kicker with four teams over nine N.F.L. seasons, said he had received emails and phone calls from at least half a dozen companies offering to help him file a claim. Most of these companies made it clear they were less concerned about his health than about earning a commission, he said.“I was definitely surprised they were reaching out to a kicker, but then I realized the more people they get, the more money they might get,” Mr. Husted said.He said the process to register online for the settlement — a needed step before filing a claim — was straightforward and did not require a lawyer.“If you can read, you can fill it out,” he said.Judge Brody left open the possibility of canceling agreements between these companies and any players they had enlisted.The N.F.L. declined to make an executive available to discuss the issue.Concussion Case Management and Legacy Pro Sports, which was started by a former player, said any misleading information on their websites had been corrected.The companies say that they are advocates for players who have difficulty completing the needed paperwork, and that they charge far less than law firms.“They want to tell you it’s simple and you don’t need to work with a service company or a lawyer — but when you sit down with the player and tell him to go to this portal, get an ID number, if you’re a retired player with impairment, it’s not necessarily an easy process,” said Jerry Passaro, the chief executive of Concussion Case Management, which charges players 12.5 percent of any award from the settlement.Retired players are also learning about provisions in the settlement that allow Medicare, former spouses, banks and other potential creditors to recoup money by placing a lien on a player’s award. Medicare and Medicaid, for instance, can recover money they have spent treating a player’s medical condition, something that could amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars for players with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Parkinson’s disease, two conditions covered under the settlement.Mr. Seeger, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, said that claims specialists representing the players would negotiate discounts with Medicare and Medicaid. He declined to say how large they would be, but he said that after the government was repaid, players would still have a large portion of their award.Some players, though, may still need to pay contingency fees to their lawyers or repay unpaid child support or a bank or other lender. And of course, players who hired a claims service company will have to hand over 10 percent or more.“With any middleman service, there are those who are doing it for a fair price and then you have people who are taking advantage,” said Ted Frank, a lawyer at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a nonprofit that focuses on class-action settlements. “But no one is going to help me fill out my claim for a $5 coupon.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSteve Scheer is a basketball junkie. He had often fantasized about eavesdropping on a coach’s huddle during timeouts. The short, edited snippets on some telecasts were hardly enough to satisfy his appetite for access.Unlike most fans, though, Scheer was in a position to fulfill his wish. As a senior coordinating producer for college basketball at Fox Sports, and a 37-year sports television veteran, Scheer’s suggestion for an all-access, commercial-free, live basketball telecast was able to become a reality.It is believed to be the first time a network has provided this amount of unfiltered content in a live sports presentation. The one concession was that the game was broadcast with a five-second delay to censor any colorful language (though that did not turn out to be entirely effective).Advertisement“I’m as excited for this event as anything we’ve done this year,” John Entz, the executive producer of Fox Sports, said in a telephone interview before the game.AdvertisementEarly on, the broadcast sounded muddled as the announcers, Lisa Byington and LaChina Robinson, struggled to be heard over the screams of the coaches. But they began to find a rhythm speaking while the chatter from the sidelines was quietest.That chatter — “Chin! Chin! Go!” Seton Hall Coach Tony Bozzella shouted out in a play call to his team — offered a fresh glimpse into the orchestrations of a college basketball game. Coaches instructed players, mumbled to assistants, and fumed at the referees.“Every call is going against Seton Hall!” Bozzella seethed after a blocking call. “Every one. This is ridiculous. Ridiculous. I’m glad I’m miked up because this stinks!”At halftime, viewers got a better sense of the styles of each team. In the St. John’s locker room, players sat in a tight U-formation around Coach Joe Tartamella, who spent his time in front of a whiteboard sketching out plays. On the other side, Bozzella remained outside his team’s locker room for 10 minutes as he huddled with his coaching staff in the hallway. With only a few minutes remaining, he entered the room to clapping from his team.Viewers were treated to a tight, competitive game. With a little over two minutes left, and the game tied at 57, Bozzella made no effort to conceal what he wanted from his team.“We’re running Princeton right now for Titi,” he told his players in the huddle, referring to guard LaTecia Smith. Seton Hall eventually won, 64-59.Tartamella was so emotional in the closing quarter that a couple of curse words slipped into the broadcast. There were also some technical difficulties early on, including noisy audio signals for several minutes and the game clock’s disappearing for a bit.AdvertisementHowever, by the second half, the production quality was cleaned up. After the game, Bozzella let the camera into the locker room ahead of him. “You’re going to like this,” he said. The room exploded with cheering and chanting.Val Ackerman, the commissioner of the Big East Conference, said she believed television sports had long been headed in this direction, as fans clamor for more and more behind-the-scenes access. At the same time, women’s basketball telecasts have become so stagnant that ESPN chose to broadcast some first- and second-round N.C.A.A. tournament games remotely last season.“I and others in women’s basketball have tried to figure out what we can do to keep this great sport vibrant,” said Ackerman, who was the first president of the W.N.B.A., from 1996 to 2005, before taking over the Big East in 2013.“How it is expressed on TV is part of the story,” she said. “This appeals to me because it’s a chance for women’s basketball to take a leadership position in how the sport is being presented to fans.”Ackerman said the league would assess whether to allow another broadcast like Friday’s in the future. But Entz said he did not consider it to be a stunt, indicating that, if all went smoothly, Fox Sports would almost certainly want to try it again.“Viewers and people at home are expecting more access. They’re expecting to get closer to the game,” he said. “They want things they aren’t used to seeing.”Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Scheer said he had floated the idea to Big East coaches several years ago and had been encouraged by their responses. Ackerman said she had needed to receive endorsements from Tartamella and Bozzella before approving the initiative.AdvertisementAfter practice on Wednesday, Bozzella was adamant about the need for women’s basketball to break through on television channels already oversaturated with college basketball. He recalled the former Tennessee coach Pat Summitt’s willingness to try new things, such as the first women’s college game played outdoors, against Arizona State in 2000.“Growing the game isn’t just doing a survey or a kids’ day or a clinic for 30 people,” he said. “How are we going to go outside the box? When faced with an opportunity like this, why say no?”Bozzella said he had no plans to change his coaching style for the cameras. He said he had encouraged the players he was recruiting to watch the telecast.“The game of basketball isn’t just the play you’re running,” Bozzella said. “There’s a lot of intensity, emotion, psychological play. A kid misses three shots, what is Coach B saying to the kid?”What might be of greater concern is the point at which the cameras become too invasive, infringing on the privacy of coach-player relationships and turning a once-safe space — the locker room at halftime — into another fishbowl.“Our locker room is very energetic, to say the least,” Seton Hall guard Kaity Healy said. “We’re probably going to act the same, because that’s how we play our game.”Ackerman said before the game that she planned to attend, but that she expected to spend most of the time inside the production truck, watching it on television.“This is a chance to show another side to what goes on during a game,” Ackerman said. “It’s a step that men’s basketball hasn’t taken yet, and our thought was, ‘Let’s let women’s basketball have a shot.’”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementLONDON — Chelsea let a two-goal lead disappear against Roma before recovering for a 3-3 tie in the Champions League on Wednesday as the Blues’ defensive vulnerability was exposed again.Following Premier League losses to Manchester City and struggling Crystal Palace, Chelsea, the defending English champion, salvaged a point after Eden Hazard headed in his second goal of the night in the 75th minute.Edin Dzeko scored twice, briefly putting Roma in front, but Chelsea remained two points ahead of the Italian club at the top of the group. Atlético Madrid is three points further back after being held to a scoreless tie by Qarabag, a newcomer to the competition from Azerbaijan that earned its first point in its third game.Chelsea had a blistering start at Stamford Bridge with David Luiz curling a shot into the bottom corner after 11 minutes. The lead was preserved by the right boot of goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, which denied Radja Nainggolan from close range.AdvertisementChelsea extended that lead in the 37th. When Roma conceded possession in the Chelsea half, Hazard used his pace to launch a counterattack. Alvaro Morata was released down the left and the striker wove through the defense before a deflected shot landed at the feet of Hazard, who was primed to sweep the ball into the net.AdvertisementRoma pulled one back five minutes before halftime when Aleksandar Kolarov got around Cesar Azpilicueta and struck past Courtois.In the 64th minute, Dzeko unleashed a first-time volley through Courtois’s arms after being set up by the former Tottenham defender Federico Fazio.Courtois was beaten again by Dzeko six minutes later as Kolarov and Dzeko combined. Dzeko darted into space between Chelsea defender to meet Kolarov’s free kick with a header.But Hazard came to Chelsea’s rescue when he headed in Pedro Rodriguez’s cross, and the hosts hung on for the point.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Messi, playing in his 122nd European match, curled a free kick over the wall in the 61st minute. Goalkeeper Silvio Proto got a hand on the ball but couldn’t keep it out as Messi took his career tally in the Champions League to 97 goals.Barcelona went in front thanks to an own goal by Dimitris Nikolaou in the 18th minute, but three minutes before halftime the hosts went down to 10 men. Gerard Pique got a second booking for using his arm to steer the ball into the net. The strike was disallowed.However, Barcelona continued to outplay Olympiakos despite playing a man down.Messi provided the pass that led left back Lucas Digne to score in the 64th. Messi dribbled around a defender before cutting the ball back through the area for Digne to drive it home.AdvertisementNikolaou scored Olympiakos’ lone goal with a header from a corner in the 90th minute.Barcelona made it three wins from as many matches in Group D and extended its unbeaten run at home in the competition to 23 straight games.Olympiakos remained with zero points.Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde coached Olympiakos from 2008-09 and 2010-12, guiding it to three Greek league titles.Juventus beat Sporting Lisbon 2-1 in the other match in Group D.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGriffin’s departure came three days before the draft — the Cavs are currently without a pick — and on the eve of free agency. Cleveland could have a busy summer as it looks to revamp its roster after having lost to the Golden State Warriors in the finals.A team spokesman said Trent Redden, the team’s senior vce president for basketball operations, was not returning, either. The assistant general manager, Koby Altman, remains with the team and is part of a group overseeing draft preparation and trade talks. The Cavs have reportedly been contacted by the Indiana Pacers in a potential deal for the Indiana All-Star Paul George.Griffin, 47, had been Cleveland’s G.M. since May 2014. He oversaw the team’s return to prominence after LeBron James came back from Miami. Griffin orchestrated the trade that brought Kevin Love from Minnesota, and he bolstered the Cavs’ roster with other trades and free-agent signings.AdvertisementAdvertisementMarcell Ozuna singled home the winning run with two outs in the ninth inning, and Miami overcame an early six-run deficit to edge visiting Washington, 8-7.The Marlins slugger Justin Bour tied the game at 6-6 in the third inning with a grand slam, his 18th home run. Giancarlo Stanton also hit his 18th of the season to make it 7-7 in the seventh.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Bryce Harper hit his 18th home run for the Nationals, and Anthony Rendon also homered.Woods was charged with driving under the influence after the police in Jupiter, Fla., found him asleep at the wheel of his Mercedes-Benz about 2 a.m. May 29. Breath tests showed no presence of alcohol, but Woods told officers he had had a reaction to several prescription drugs, including Vicodin and Xanax. His arraignment has been delayed until Aug. 9.Germany’s inexperienced side was given a fright by Australia at the Confederations Cup in Sochi, Russia, holding on to win its Group B opener, 3-2, after goalkeeper Bernd Leno gifted the Asian champions both goals. Only two members of Germany’s 2014 World-Cup-winning squad started the game.Federal regulators are challenging the planned merger of FanDuel and DraftKings, the two largest daily fantasy sports sites, saying the combination would create a company controlling more than 90 percent of the market. The Federal Trade Commission announced it would file a complaint — along with the attorneys general of California and the District of Columbia — seeking to temporarily stop the deal, pending an administrative trial scheduled for Nov. 21.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementJack Gerber of South Africa is the oldest man to start the 24 Hours of Le Mans endurance race. On June 22, 2013, he was 68 years and 110 days old, racing for the AF Corse team. When he came in third in his class, he also became Le Mans’s oldest podium finisher.Gerber is an outlier, of course; few people that age achieve international racing success. But drivers in endurance racing, of which the Le Mans 24-hour race is the crown jewel, have far longer careers than in series like Formula One.Endurance racing is no less physically demanding than Formula One, and drivers in both categories experience high G-forces while cornering because of the downforce generated by each type of car. The flagship LMP1 category (Le Mans Prototype 1) sees cars reaching speeds over 220 miles an hour, about 10 percent slower than a Formula One car.Where Formula One is a sprint event, with about 20 two-hour races per year, the World Endurance Championship (W.E.C.) is a series of marathons, with a season of eight six-hour races and the 24 hour Le Mans showpiece.AdvertisementBoth categories demand stamina, aerobic fitness, core strength and mental acuity, but drivers traditionally retire in their mid-30s from Formula One, while the other series embraces age as fundamental to experience.AdvertisementAt Le Mans, age and experience are key for cars and drivers, and are used to help categorize man and machine. While a Grand Prix will see similar cars built to the same formula of regulations and with comparable power and speeds, endurance racing embraces a variety of classes of car, with members of each category competing among themselves — races within the race.The headline fight is in the LMP1 class, a big-budget battle of varying power philosophies and design between Toyota and Porsche, while in LMP2 the mandated engine type reduces costs and opens the field to a range of entrants not affiliated with a manufacturer. The GT, or Grand Tourer, categories are divided into pro- and am classes, and it is here that the likes of Ford, Aston Martin and Ferrari enter their sports cars.Drivers are similarly classified, with professionals and amateurs sharing track time in the same car. Endurance races typically see several drivers sharing driving duties, each responsible for a stint or stints behind the wheel. Amateur drivers, often called gentlemen drivers, will often finance smaller teams, working alongside a professional racer and improving their skills.To ensure that these gentlemen drivers were given seat time in the teams they funded, rules were introduced limiting the number of professional drivers allowed in certain classes. This has created an environment in which it is in the interests of teams to open up their cars to wealthy and passionate amateurs, and has had the side effect of increasing the age range of Le Mans entrants.But the career longevity of endurance racing, which takes a long-term view of its drivers not found in Formula One, is not restricted to the amateur racers. Mark Webber had a long career driving for the Red Bull Racing grand prix team, and then drove for Porsche in the W.E.C. after his Formula One career was over.“Formula One’s a bit more cutthroat,” Webber said. “If you’re two-tenths off for a few years, then it’s all over. In sports cars you can drive for a lot longer. It’s more team-orientated. It’s less individual than Formula One.“The manufacturers believe that when you invest in someone in sports car racing, that investment, sometimes it’s a bit of a slow burn to get the investment back as an individual, as a driver, culturally, how they settle in the team; all of these things. It’s an investment you have to lay down. There is no patience for that in F1. Zero.”AdvertisementThat lack of patience has seen the W.E.C. field find room for many former Formula One drivers, those who have retired in their mid-30s and those who lost their seats.One driver who went the other way is André Lotterer, a three-time Le Mans winner who briefly raced for the Caterham F1 team in 2014, 12 years after an unsuccessful test with the Jaguar Formula One team.“You have to be a big team player, put your ego on the side,” Lotterer said of the W.E.C. “In F1, it’s like war against everyone. Here you have to be mates with your three drivers. You don’t have to try to beat them. You work together and develop the car. You have to be a brand ambassador as well. There are a lot of boxes to tick, and I don’t think you find them so easily. It takes time to develop them.“I think it’s not easy for top manufacturers to find drivers that tick off all the boxes. Endurance, at the moment, you have to do sprint with zero mistakes. Le Mans is one race. It’s not like a Formula One championship where you have 20 races.”Andreas Seidl, team principal of the Porsche LMP1 team, is aware that for some drivers, the W.E.C. is a Plan B when Formula One is out of reach.“It depends on the options the drivers have,” Seidl said. “Formula One, it’s the pinnacle for drivers, no question. But once — or depending on how — their careers go, the business we are doing is obviously coming straight after F1 for these guys. It’s a very attractive championship, very attractive cars, highly complex cars, a very competitive grid. That makes it attractive for them.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.José María López, a former star of the World Touring Car Championship and a current Toyota LMP1 driver, looked beyond the Formula One dream.“I don’t think it’s about having a longer career,” López said. “It’s just about knowing that there is life after Formula One. Everything for a driver is Formula One, and it was for me. At one time it was an objective and a dream.” But he said he is sure he enjoys the W.E.C. much more now than he probably would have enjoyed being in Formula One.“There is always an option,” he said. “Life is not finished when Formula One is finished. There are still many series, many very nice cars to drive.”AdvertisementGraeme Lowdon, former sporting director of the Manor Racing Formula One team and now head of the CEFC Manor TRS Racing team in LMP2, says the two disciplines require different skills.“Inside the cockpit in endurance racing, experience is really quite important,” he said. “It is such a challenge, in particular the long endurance races — Le Mans, for example — it really is something else. It is the greatest challenge going for teams and drivers as a one-off race. There’s nothing else quite like it.“From a team point of view, what we try and do is put together a positive mix of experience and speed. We have tried to do things a little bit differently and have brought a lot of ex-F1 drivers” into the W.E.C. in the last season and a half.”“We’re used to dealing with those sort of drivers, and we’re used to dealing with the strengths and the weaknesses,” Lowdon said. “It’s so different from single-seaters and requires a different skill set altogether.”Karun Chandhok, a former Formula One driver, has some experience of endurance racing. For him, career longevity in sports-car racing is simple: It’s a numbers game.“The turnover rate in Formula One is so high, and there’s an excess of supply rather than demand,” Chandhok said. “You’ve got so many drivers coming through from GP2, from GP3 and F3. There are only 20 seats. There are less and less seats available.”He said there were more seats available in endurance racing, so drivers are able to prolong their careers.“In sports car racing, there’s a much bigger pool and opportunity, and therefore you can prolong your career,” Chandhok said. “It’s quite simple: There’s just more availability of seats.”This year, the youngest driver on the Le Mans grid will be 17-year-old Phillip Hanson, who will share driving duties with Chandhok and Nigel Moore for Tockwith Motorsports’ Ligier JSP217 in the LMP2 class.AdvertisementThe oldest driver this year is 65-year-old Mark Patterson. So even if he wins, Gerber’s records are safe.Go to Home Page »