AdvertisementSupported byMuch of the game’s history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.When shortstop Don Zimmer’s throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodges’s glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn. With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.Five New York ballparks built in baseball’s “modern” era, which began early in the 20th century — Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008) — seeded much of the game’s history before being torn down. You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementPenny Chenery, who took over her father’s thoroughbred farm with little knowledge of horse racing and became one of the few prominent women in the sport as the owner and breeder of Secretariat, perhaps the fastest horse who ever raced, died on Saturday at her home in Boulder, Colo. She was 95.Her death was announced by her family.When Secretariat died at 19 in 1989, Ms. Chenery, who oversaw his fortunes as the manager of her family’s Meadow Stable in Virginia, recalled how he had enthralled so many in troubled times.“In 1973, the country was in an emotional slump,” she wrote in The New York Times. “It was the time of the Watergate and Nixon scandals, and people were looking for something wholesome to admire. I’ve always felt that because he was a chestnut horse and our stable colors were blue and white, he was running in red, white and blue.”AdvertisementAdvertisementMs. Chenery first gained prominence in 1972, when Secretariat was horse of the year as a 2-year-old and his 3-year-old stablemate Riva Ridge, who is not mentioned in the film, won both the Kentucky Derby and the Belmont Stakes.“Lucien Laurin trained and campaigned the horse, not me,” Ms. Chenery noted long afterward in recalling Secretariat’s glory years. “I discovered I had the ability to communicate with the public, though, and as the horse’s spokeswoman I suppose people began to think of horses being owned by women.”“Obviously, one can romanticize it all, but I think Penny Chenery had a sense that connected her to the horse,” Mr. Wallace said when the movie was released.Ms. Chenery dismissed the suggestion of a mystical tie. As she told The Times: “It’s a Disney movie. No, we didn’t have a spiritual connection. We had a mutual respect, but he didn’t stand still long enough for me to look in his eye and say a prayer.”Notwithstanding the film’s feel-good touches, Secretariat’s Triple Crown year was hardly all roses for Ms. Chenery.AdvertisementIn the 2013 documentary “Penny & Red: The Story of Secretariat’s Owner,” produced and directed by Ms. Chenery’s son John Tweedy Jr., she revealed that she had an affair during that racing season of 1973 with Mr. Laurin, the trainer, arising, she said, from the crumbling of her marriage to John Tweedy (they would divorce late in 1973) and her feeling of isolation in facing the pressures of the time.“It may spoil my image,” Ms. Chenery told The Lexington Herald-Leader in discussing her revelation of the affair with Mr. Laurin, who died in 2000. “I don’t know, and at this point I don’t care. It was a tremendous experience for me to go through the Secretariat years, and I just really wanted to let people know what it’s like to have a top horse and no one to turn to.”Helen Bates Chenery was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., on Jan. 27, 1922, and grew up in nearby Pelham Manor, a daughter of Christopher T. Chenery, who made his fortune organizing public utility holding companies. She rode in shows as a youngster, developing a love for horses from her father, who took part in polo matches and fox hunts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In 1936, Christopher Chenery bought the Meadow, a 2,600-acre property in Doswell, Va., near Richmond, that had once been his family’s estate but had fallen out of its hands after the Civil War. He developed it into a racing and breeding operation known for outstanding broodmares.Ms. Chenery graduated from Smith College, worked for the Red Cross in Europe during World War II and was taking graduate courses in business at Columbia University when she met John Bayard Tweedy. After their marriage in 1949, they lived in Denver, where he was a lawyer and businessman. They raised four children and she engaged in charitable work.Ms. Chenery had maintained only a limited connection with her father’s horse farm.“I was close to my dad as a daughter to a father, but he was a man who had his own ideas,” she recalled in the book “Secretariat,” by Raymond G. Woolfe Jr. “He didn’t want a lot of help or advice. Oh, I was on the board but all I did was go to the meetings and learn what had already happened and say, ‘Aye.’”But in the fall of 1967, when Mr. Chenery became limited by Alzheimer’s disease and his wife, Helen, died, she was designated by her brother, Hollis Chenery, and her sister, Margaret Carmichael, to take over Meadow Stable. She studied thoroughbred publications and obtained advice from Meadow’s managers and the noted horseman Arthur B. Hancock, known as Bull, of Claiborne Farm in Kentucky, determined to keep Meadow financially sound and to carry on her father’s legacy.She got Secretariat after losing a coin toss with the Phipps family of Wheatley Stable as to who would have first choice of foals from two Meadow mares that had been bred to Wheatley’s renowned stallion Bold Ruler.One of those mares was Somethingroyal, a daughter of the Chenery family’s outstanding broodmare Imperatrice. Meadow Stable wound up with the Somethingroyal-Bold Ruler foal born there on March 30, 1970, and named Secretariat by the Meadow executive Elizabeth Ham, who had worked for the old League of Nations in Geneva.AdvertisementSecretariat won seven of nine races as a 2-year-old in 1972. Soon after the death of Mr. Chenery at 86 in January 1973, Secretariat was syndicated for a record $6.08 million, enabling the Chenery family to pay estate taxes. “I was determined to keep the stable operating,” Ms. Chenery once recalled.After winning 16 of 21 starts, Secretariat was retired to stud at Claiborne Farm in Paris, Ky., in November 1973. He produced many stakes winners, though he never matched the renown of his sire, Bold Ruler, as a stallion. He holds the records for fastest times in all three Triple Crown races, garnering the Preakness record in 2012, when his time was revised downward after analysis with state-of-the-art measuring equipment.Ms. Chenery told The Herald-Leader that her affair with Mr. Laurin ended after Secretariat was retired. “We’d run into each other at Hall of Fame ceremonies but, of course, he had a wife,” she said. “When the fever burned out, we were just good friends.”Ms. Chenery campaigned a few horses after Secretariat was retired; she was the first woman to serve as president of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association, from 1976 to 1984, and she was an advocate for humane treatment of retired thoroughbreds. The Chenery family sold the Meadow in 1979.Survivors include her sons, John and Chris Tweedy; her daughters, Sarah Manning and Kate Tweedy; a stepson, Jon Ringquist, from her marriage to her second husband, Lennart Ringquist, which ended in divorce; and six grandchildren.Eddie Sweat, Secretariat’s groom, died in 1998, and Mr. Laurin died in 2000. Ron Turcotte, Secretariat’s jockey, now 76, has been paralyzed since a racing spill at Belmont Park in 1978.Ms. Chenery continued to receive letters as well as poems and children’s drawings paying tribute to Secretariat while he stood at stud. As she put it, “What all these people are really saying is, ‘Boy, we love that horse.’”“I’m going to miss him terribly,” she said when Secretariat died. “He was not only a champion race horse but a cherished friend.”An obituary on Monday about Penny Chenery, the owner and breeder of the racehorse Secretariat, misspelled part of the name of the racing stable owned by Elizabeth Arden Graham. It was Maine Chance Farm, not Main Chance Farm.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWhen I was 7, my second-grade teacher assigned a project called “Christmas Is …” We each made a little book and filled every page with a different way to finish that sentence. Christmas is giving, Christmas is love, Christmas is Santa, and so on.On one of my pages, I wrote “Christmas is Manny Trillo’s birthday” — which it was, of course. How did I know that? I was crazy about baseball, and he was the second baseman for my local team, the Philadelphia Phillies. How could I not know his birthday?Retaining such trivia, I soon realized, was not normal. But what can I tell you? When baseball tidbits go into my brain, they usually don’t come out. I don’t know why this is, but at least I’ve made a career out of it.So here is my gift to you, the baseball fan in winter: a wide-ranging trivia quiz to enjoy with that holiday egg nog. I made it 50 questions long, mostly because baseball fans like round numbers, but also to honor Charlie Morton of the Houston Astros, who wore No. 50 while closing out the seventh game of this year’s World Series at Dodger Stadium. Morton got a ground ball to second base — Trillo’s position.AdvertisementHappy birthday, old friend, and warmest greetings to all!Answers are below the quiz.Paths to the Hall of FameAdvertisement1. Which of these Hall of Famers never played for the A’s?a) Billy Williamsb) Mike Piazzac) Jim Bunningd) Willie McCovey2. Which of these Hall of Famers never played for the Giants?a) Phil Niekrob) Steve Carltonc) Duke Sniderd) Goose Gossage3. Which of these Hall of Famers never played for the Astros?a) Robin Robertsb) Nellie Foxc) Don Suttond) Luis Aparicio4. Which of these Hall of Famers never played for the Angels?a) Eddie Murrayb) Orlando Cepedac) Frank Robinsond) Hoyt Wilhelm5. Which of these Hall of Famers never played for the Red Sox?a) Fergie Jenkinsb) Juan Marichalc) John Smoltzd) Rollie FingersTeam tidbits1. The two highest numbers to be retired for players — 56 and 72 — were both retired for members of the White Sox. Who wore those numbers?2. Who played the most games in the history of the Montreal Expos?a) Jose Vidrob) Tim Rainesc) Tim WallachAdvertisementd) Vladimir Guerrero3. Who holds the Milwaukee Brewers’ franchise record for career wins (117)?a) Teddy Higuerab) Ben Sheetsc) Jim Slatond) Pete Vuckovich4. Who is the only pitcher to win a World Series game for the San Diego Padres?a) Tim Lollarb) Andy Hawkinsc) Andy Ashbyd) Eric Show5. Which pitcher started the most World Series games for the Big Red Machine in the 1970s?a) Gary Nolanb) Jack Billinghamc) Don Gullettd) Tom SeaverYankees1. Which four teams besides the Yankees did Billy Martin manage?2. Who was on deck for the Yankees when Aaron Boone homered to win the 2003 American League Championship Series?3. Which pitcher won the first regular-season game and the first World Series game at the new Yankee Stadium?4. Which Yankee did not win an M.V.P. Award in an A.L.C.S.?a) Andy Pettitteb) Orlando Hernandezc) David Wellsd) David Cone5. In the opening of the 1988 movie “Big,” which Yankees pitcher does Josh Baskin pretend to be?Advertisementa) Ron Guidryb) Rick Rhodenc) Dave Righettid) Ed WhitsonCommon names, uncommon feats1. Give the first name for each player named Williams:a) Only player to hit 10 career homers off Bob Gibsonb) Scored on Kenny Rogers’s bases-loaded walk to end the Braves-Mets National League Championship Series in 1999c) Won the 1971 N.L. Rookie of the Year Award for the Bravesd) Hit a World Series home run for three different teams in three different decades2. Give the first name for each player named Smith:a) Struck out for the Rockies to end the 2007 World Seriesb) Managed the Phillies, Reds and Tigers from 1955 to 1970c) Won the World Series with three different teams in the 1980sd) Allowed Tony Gwynn’s 3,000th career hit, against the Expos, in 19993. Give the first name for each player named Jones:a) Leading winner (21-8) for the Yankees’ first championship team, in 1921b) Caught the final out of the 1969 World Series for the Metsc) Won the N.L. Cy Young Award in 1976 for the Padresd) First All-Star in Mariners history (1977)4. Give the first name for each player named Davis:a) Won two N.L. batting titles for the Dodgers in the 1960sb) Won the 1984 A.L. Rookie of the Year Award for the Marinersc) Lost twice to Orel Hershiser for the A’s in the 1988 World SeriesAdvertisementd) Allowed Randy Johnson’s only career home run, against the Brewers, in 20035. Give the first name for each player named Jackson:a) Hall of Fame shortstop for the Giants in the 1920s and ’30sb) Was 8-20 for the 1962 Metsc) Won Game 7 of the 1979 World Series for the Piratesd) M.V.P. of the 1989 All-Star GameMets1. Of the 16 pitchers to appear in 1,000 games, only four are left-handers. One is Dan Plesac. The three others pitched for the Mets. Who are they?2. The Mets have had a different opening day starter in each of the last seven seasons. Name them.2011:2012:2013:2014:2015:2016:2017:3. The Mets used the first pick of the 1966 draft on a high school catcher, Steve Chilcott, who never reached the majors. Who was picked second by the Kansas City A’s?4. Which former Detroit Pistons forward did the Mets beat in Game 2 of the 1969 N.L.C.S.?5. Who made the most career starts for the Mets without starting for them in the World Series?a) Bobby Jonesb) Sid Fernandezc) Craig Swand) David ConeNo-hitters and perfect games1. Who are the only two pitchers to throw a no-hitter against the Kansas City Royals? (One in 1973, the other in 2008)2. No pitcher has thrown two perfect games, but one catcher has caught two perfect games. Who is he?a) Joe GirardiHe has covered Jordan. He’s covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.’s curtain with the league’s foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.b) Ron Hasseyc) Jeff Reedd) A.J. Pierzynski3. Which current manager made the last out of a perfect game?Advertisementa) Gabe Kaplerb) Mike Mathenyc) Dave Martinezd) Craig Counsell4. Which three pitchers have thrown no-hitters at Citi Field?5. Who is the only Cardinals pitcher to throw two no-hitters?a) Jesse Hainesb) Bob Gibsonc) Bob Forschd) Darryl KileWorld Series1. Name the four stadiums (none in use for baseball anymore) that have hosted the World Series and the Super Bowl.2. Name each player’s team in his final World Series appearance:Eddie Mathews:Tony Perez:Willie Randolph:Eddie Murray:3. Four prominent members of the World Series champion 1992 Blue Jays had the initials D.W. Who were they?4. Who has played the most games (2,831) without ever reaching the World Series?a) Rafael Palmeirob) Ken Griffey Jr.c) Rod Carewd) Ernie Banks5. Which Hall of Famers made the last outs of the following World Series?a) 1956b) 1962c) 1975d) 1984e) 2000Draft1. Of the 17 pitchers chosen first over all in the draft, only two have at least 100 career victories and an earned run average under 4.00. David Price is one. Who is the other?a) Floyd Bannisterb) Tim Belcherc) Andy Benesd) Mike Moore2. Only six No. 1 overall picks have won the World Series with the team that drafted them. Who are they?Advertisement3. Which Hall of Famers were drafted with consecutive picks in the second round in 1971?a) Jim Rice and Dave Winfieldb) George Brett and Mike Schmidtc) Carlton Fisk and Andre Dawsond) Gary Carter and Dennis Eckersley4. Which No. 1 overall draft pick played the most games in the majors?a) Alex Rodriguezb) Chipper Jonesc) B.J. Surhoffd) Harold Baines5. Which future N.F.L. quarterback was not drafted by an M.L.B. team?a) Steve Youngb) Tom Bradyc) Dan Marinod) Colin KaepernickBesides Babe Ruth …1. Besides Babe Ruth, name the four Most Valuable Player Award winners who have four-letter first and last names. (Hint: three in the 1970s, one in the 2000s.)2. Besides Babe Ruth, who is the only player with at least 600 homers and at least two World Series championships?3. Besides Babe Ruth, who are the only three players to hit three home runs in a World Series game?4. Besides Babe Ruth, who homered in the first All-Star Game in 1933?a) Lou Gehrigb) Al Simmonsc) Frankie Frischd) Bill Terry5. Besides Babe Ruth, who are the only two players with four 50-homer seasons?a) Sammy Sosa and Alex Rodriguezb) Sammy Sosa and Mark McGwirec) Barry Bonds and Alex Rodriguezd) Barry Bonds and Mark McGwireAdvertisementRandom fun1. The subject of the very first color photo above the fold on the front page of The New York Times was a baseball player wearing No. 1 in October. Who was it?a) Mookie Wilson in 1986b) Otis Nixon in 1992c) Tony Fernandez in 1997d) Bengie Molina in 20022. Which pair of players were not born on the exact same day?a) Greg Maddux and Dave Justiceb) David Cone and Edgar Martinezc) Jeff Bagwell and Frank Thomasd) Jorge Posada and Ramiro Mendoza3. Who is the only player with 500 hits for four different teams?a) Roberto Alomarb) Rusty Staubc) Gary Sheffieldd) Carlos Beltran4. Which future N.B.A. Hall of Famer was an active member of the Brooklyn Dodgers — though he never played a major league game — when the Giants’ Bobby Thomson hit “The Shot Heard Round the World” on Oct. 3, 1951?5. Which three Hall of Famers were born on Christmas?Paths to the Hall of Fame1-c) Jim Bunning2-a) Phil Niekro3-d) Luis Aparicio4-b) Orlando Cepeda5-d) Rollie FingersTeam tidbits1-Mark Buehrle 56, Carlton Fisk 722-c) Tim Wallach3-c) Jim Slaton4-b) Andy Hawkins5-a) Gary NolanYankees1-Twins, Tigers, Rangers, A’sAdvertisement2-Karim Garcia3-Cliff Lee4-d) David Cone5-b) Rick RhodenCommon names1-Williams: a) Billy, b) Gerald, c) Earl, d) Matt2-Smith: a) Seth, b) Mayo, c) Lonnie, d) Dan3-Jones: a) Sad Sam, b) Cleon, c) Randy, d) Ruppert4-Davis: a) Tommy, b) Alvin, c) Storm, d) Doug5-Jackson: a) Travis, b) Al, c) Grant, d) BoMets1-Jesse Orosco, Mike Stanton, John Franco2-2011: Mike Pelfrey; 2012: Johan Santana; 2013: Jon Niese; 2014: Dillon Gee; 2015: Bartolo Colon; 2016: Matt Harvey; 2017: Noah Syndergaard3-Reggie Jackson4-Ron Reed5-b) Sid FernandezNo-hitters and perfect games1-Nolan Ryan 1973, Jon Lester 20082-b) Ron Hassey (Len Barker and Dennis Martinez)3-a) Gabe Kapler (Dallas Braden)4-Johan Santana, Chris Heston, Max Scherzer5-c) Bob ForschWorld Series1-L.A. Coliseum, Joe Robbie/Pro Player Stadium, Metrodome, Jack Murphy/Qualcomm Stadium2-Eddie Mathews: Tigers; Tony Perez: Phillies; Willie Randolph: A’s; Eddie Murray: Indians3-Duane Ward, Devon White, Dave Winfield, David Wells4-a) Rafael Palmeiro5-1956: Jackie Robinson; 1962: Willie McCovey; 1975: Carl Yastrzemski; 1984: Tony Gwynn; 2000: Mike PiazzaAdvertisementDraft1-c) Andy Benes2-Darryl Strawberry (Mets), Chipper Jones (Braves), Darin Erstad (Angels), Pat Burrell (Phillies), Carlos Correa (Astros), Luke Hochevar (Royals)3-b) George Brett and Mike Schmidt4-d) Harold Baines5-a) Steve YoungBesides Babe Ruth1-Vida Blue, Pete Rose, Fred Lynn, Jeff Kent2-Albert Pujols3-Reggie Jackson, Albert Pujols, Pablo Sandoval4-c) Frankie Frisch5-b) Sammy Sosa and Mark McGwireRandom fun1-Tony Fernandez2-d) Jorge Posada and Ramiro Mendoza3-b) Rusty Staub4-Bill Sharman5-Rickey Henderson, Nellie Fox, Pud GalvinAn earlier version of this article misstated how many No. 1 overall draft picks have won a World Series with the team that drafted them. There have been six, not five. Luke Hochevar of the Royals was left out.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementA lawsuit filed by a former Baylor student that heightened concerns about sexual assaults by members of the football program has been settled, the latest in a series of claims that the university has tried to put to rest as it seeks to move on under new leadership in its administration and its athletics department.The plaintiff accused the university of violating the federal gender-equity law Title IX in cultivating a climate that helped lead to her rape in 2013 by two former football players, who have since been arrested on sexual assault charges. The lawsuit charged that at least 52 rapes were committed by at least 31 players from 2011 through 2014.The plaintiff and Baylor filed a joint notice of settlement Tuesday in federal court.One of the plaintiff’s attorneys, John Clune, said in a statement that the terms of the settlement were confidential and that his client planned to testify against the two players in criminal proceedings.  MARC TRACYAdvertisementPigrome, a sophomore, won the starting job in an intense competition during the summer. He was 9 for 12 for 175 yards and also ran for 64 yards against the Longhorns.AdvertisementThe Crimson Tide are No. 1 again, securing 60 of 61 first-place votes in the first Top 25 poll of the regular season. Ohio State remained No. 2 in the news media poll and received the other first-place vote. The defending champion Clemson moved up to No. 3. Penn State is No. 4, and Oklahoma moved up to No. 5, so there will be a top-five matchup for the second straight week when the Sooners play at Ohio State on Saturday.The Miami Dolphins’ season opener against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will not be played in Miami this week but may be moved to a neutral site because of Hurricane Irma, the N.F.L. said.If the game is not relocated, it will be postponed until November, when the teams share a bye week.Kickoff had been scheduled for Sunday at 1 p.m. Eastern, but Irma is forecast to threaten South Florida this weekend.Newton, the Carolina Panthers’ starting quarterback, asked and answered a few of his own questions on Tuesday:“Do I think Kaepernick is better than some of these starting quarterbacks in this league? Absolutely.“Should he be on a roster? Absolutely.“Is he good enough to be a starting quarterback? Absolutely.”AdvertisementNewton and the Panthers will play Kaepernick’s former team, the San Francisco 49ers, on Sunday.Some players believe that Kaepernick, who had a better passer rating than roughly half the starting quarterbacks in the league in 2016, has been blackballed by teams for choosing to kneel during the national anthem to protest police violence and social injustice.Syria scored deep into stoppage time at Iran to keep alive its hopes of qualifying for the World Cup for the first time amid a civil war at home.With Syria facing elimination from Asian qualifying, Omar al-Soma marked his return to the team after a five-year absence to clinch a 2-2 draw and a place in the playoffs.Players, with “Syria” rather than their names emblazoned across the back of their red jerseys, sank to their knees on the turf in Tehran. From the bench, flag-waving members of the team’s staff streamed onto the field.Back home, the pursuit of a place at next year’s World Cup in Russia has provided a flicker of joy in parts of a country divided by six years of war. Big screens were erected in public squares in the Syrian capital of Damascus for public viewings, and fans packed into coffee shops and sports halls to watch the broadcast from Iran.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Thousands of dancing fans filtered onto the streets of Damascus chanting “Syria” and waving the country’s flag, bringing traffic to a complete halt in the city center.“This is the happiest day of my life,” said Bashir Rahal, 26, who was watching the game in a Damascus hotel, with the country’s flag on a table in front of him.Now Syria will have to qualify the hard way for its first trip to the World Cup.Syria will play Australia in a two-match Asian series next month. To make the World Cup, the winner will then have to beat a team from the Concacaf confederation covering North and Central America and the Caribbean.AdvertisementThat left Saudi Arabia needing to win by just one goal against Japan. Fahad Al Muwallad obliged with a fierce strike into the top right corner in the 63rd minute to hand the Saudis a 1-0 win and their first World Cup appearance since 2006.Spain followed Saturday’s 3-0 win over Italy by crushing Liechtenstein, 8-0, to remain atop Group G, three points ahead of Italy, which labored to a 1-0 win over Israel.Serbia is similarly in control of Group D after beating Ireland, 1-0, to go four points ahead.Matters are far less clear in Group I, where four teams are separated by just two points with two games left. Croatia, the group leader, and Iceland both have 16 points, while Turkey and Ukraine are just two points behind.The nine group winners automatically advance from European qualifying, with the eight best runners-up going to a playoff round.After six days of qualifiers ended, the most significant development was who won’t be playing in Russia. Cameroon, the African champion, was the first of the 20 teams in the final group stage to be eliminated. Others followed Cameroon out, but 15 of the 20 still have a chance of making it, even if some are long shots.Only the five group winners in Africa will qualify for the World Cup. The best-placed teams are Tunisia, which leads Group A by 3 points; Nigeria, ahead by 3 points in Group B; Ivory Coast, clinging to a 1-point lead in Group C; Burkina Faso and Cape Verde, surprisingly tied at the top of Group D ahead of Senegal and South Africa; and Egypt, which leads Group E.AdvertisementChris Froome won the individual time trial to increase his Vuelta a España lead and remain in position to win the race for the first time.In the overall standings, Froome’s lead over Nibali increased to 1 minute 58 seconds. Kelderman moved to third overall, 42 seconds behind Nibali.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWelcome to the weekend. The trees are in bloom, but the air is still crisp. The outdoors are calling, so maybe get your cup of joe to go, sit in the sun a spell and read some fantastic journalism.________Advertisement____As Raúl Castro of Cuba steps down, Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermúdez steps up. Here’s a look at Mr. Castro’s handpicked successor and what’s ahead for the communist country.Advertisement________________________Watch the trailer for “Caliphate,” a new podcast series from The New York Times about one reporter’s quest to understand the Islamic State.________Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe Houston Cougars could have played their football game at Texas-San Antonio on Saturday. Instead they chose to postpone it, deciding there were things much more important than football this week with Houston besieged by catastrophic flooding from Hurricane Harvey.“We felt like it wasn’t the right thing to do in terms of where our city is,” Houston Coach Major Applewhite said. “Sports are important and sports are fun and it’s entertainment, but with casualties in our city and the state of mind of our players and our players’ families, it’s not the right thing to do, to play a game.”Officials said they would explore options for rescheduling the game.AdvertisementAdvertisementMonaco, the defending Ligue 1 champion, signed forwards Stevan Jovetic from Inter Milan and Keita Balde from Lazio, pre-empting the anticipated departure of Kylian Mbappe to Paris Saint-Germain. P.S.G. is reportedly close to sealing a loan move for Mbappe, with an option to acquire the 18-year-old for 180 million euros ($216 million) next season.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.P.S.G. is not in a position to land Mbappe right now. It signed Neymar from Barcelona this month for a world-record 222 million euros ($262 million) and is restricted by rules designed to curtail excessive spending by clubs each season. Balde, 22, who plays for Senegal, scored 16 goals for Lazio in Serie A last season and has signed a five-year deal. Jovetic, 27, signed a four-year deal.Chris Froome kept his Vuelta a España lead by avoiding trouble in the difficult final descent of Stage 10, which was won by Matteo Trentin. It was the second stage victory for Trentin, an Italian, who outsprinted the Spaniard Jose Joaquin Rojas at the end of the 164.8-kilometer (102.4-mile) ride from Caravaca de la Cruz to Alhama de Murcia in southeastern Spain.AdvertisementRoyals pitcher Danny Duffy has been cited on suspicion of driving under the influence in suburban Kansas City last weekend, another headache for a team struggling on the field. Duffy had left the team’s trip to return to Kansas City for a magnetic resonance imaging test on his ailing left elbow. Duffy is one of the organization’s most popular players, not only for his on-field production but his work in the community. Duffy, a left-hander who signed a $65 million, five-year contract extension earlier this year, is 8-8 with a 3.78 earned run average.Sid Wilson, a New York City high school star, has requested to transfer from St. John’s before his freshman season starts. St. John’s has granted the 6-foot-7 Wilson permission to speak with other Division I programs. Before signing with St. John’s in May, Wilson spent his senior year at Brewster Academy in New Hampshire, where he helped lead the Bobcats to the 2017 National Prep Championship. He had also attended St. Raymond in the Bronx.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballLAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — The Mets’ most important addition this off-season might be a 42-year-old right-hander with a 4-11 career record and a 6.27 earned run average. He does have a .667 batting average, but has no hits in this century and has not thrown a pitch in the majors since 2004.The Yankees opened the winter meetings Monday by introducing Giancarlo Stanton, the reigning National League Most Valuable Player, to whom they owe $265 million for the next 10 years after a trade with the Miami Marlins. The Mets opened by expressing caution about the high price of middle relievers.“I would spend a little less time thinking about our payroll,” General Manager Sandy Alderson said on Tuesday. “We’re trying to put the best team on the field we possibly can.”Yet they are doing it with a payroll Alderson has said could be lower than last year’s opening-day figure of roughly $155 million. The Wilpons never operate like the Steinbrenners, of course, but the difference seems especially stark now.Not that it unsettles Callaway. He spent the last five seasons as the pitching coach for the Cleveland Indians, who have won big with modest payrolls.“I was involved in a smaller market,” Callaway said on Tuesday. “You don’t have to spend money to win. I think that’s pretty evident nowadays. It’s not about paying $30 million for a slugger. It’s about doing everything you possibly can and using every resource you possibly can to make your group of players the best they can be. And if you do that, you’re going to have the edge over the other team, in my opinion.“Now, it’s great to have unbelievable players that have great talent. But you can outwork ’em, and that’s what we’re gonna try and do.”So the traditional roles are back in place, on the field and off. Callaway has nothing to do with the Mets’ history; he never even faced them in his five-year career with Tampa Bay, Anaheim and Texas. He brings something important to his new job.“I think, first and foremost, maybe we can bring a clean slate to the Mets,” Callaway said. “We can sit everybody down and say, ‘Hey, whatever happened in the past has happened.’ One of the things I’m most passionate about is leadership and creating a new culture of things, and I’m hoping that there’s a cultural shift in everything we do.”Callaway quickly added that he was speaking about constant improvement, not criticizing the culture he inherits. But that culture has been marked lately by persistent confusion about injuries and a sense of entitlement around starters Matt Harvey and Noah Syndergaard. By often using words like culture and accountability, Callaway understands what must change.“I remember I told Carlos Carrasco when I first started working with him, ‘I don’t care if you like me, but you’re going to pitch better, and in the end you’ll respect me someday, or love me,’” Callaway said, referring to a Cleveland starter who flourished under his guidance.“And when I got this job, he texted me and said: ‘You know what? I love you.’ And I think that’s how you have to approach it. I was as hard on him as anybody. But we’re going to hold guys accountable for their routines, to make sure they’re doing the things that are very important to keep them healthy.”With the Indians, Callaway worked with one of baseball’s most progressive front offices. He encouraged some pitchers to work with weighted-ball programs and ran a staff that threw by far the most curveballs last season — and allowed the fewest home runs. He loathes the idea of playing catch just to get the arm loose.“We put Motus sleeves on all the pitchers in Cleveland and monitored the way they played catch,” Callaway said, referring to a compression sleeve with a sensor that tracks biomechanical data. “If you pitch like you do off the slope, to your catch partner every day, even if it’s 40 feet away or long-tossing, going through your mechanics and using your legs, it’s less taxing on your elbow and your shoulder. Therefore you can do it more, and you can recover better. Corey Kluber did it the best, and he’s thrown more innings than anyone, I think, in Major League Baseball in the last four years.”Kluber was actually second, just behind Washington’s Max Scherzer, but that list is notably barren of Mets. Among the top 30 pitchers in innings compiled since 2014, just one pitched for the Mets in that time — Bartolo Colon. Only Jacob deGrom managed even 120 innings for the Mets last season.Callaway hinted Tuesday that he might not use a dedicated closer — “We have to make sure we get to a save situation, and if we can’t get there, it doesn’t do any good to have this guy be named the closer,” he said — and was vague about his rotation plans. But Callaway and the new pitching coach, Dave Eiland, have told Alderson they want to work with Harvey, and Alderson seems inclined to let them.Trading Harvey now, after two seasons sabotaged by injuries, makes little sense. Why not see if Callaway and Eiland can fix him, or at least find out what remains?“When you’re trying to help a pitcher, it’s probably never productive to try and get back to a place,” Callaway said. “I think it’s, ‘Let’s try to improve upon what happened here before.’ Now, you may eventually get back to that place. Maybe you get better than you were to begin with. I think it’s just trying to make sure you’re not focused on going from A to Z. You focus on going from A to B to C, with little improvements that turn this calendar year into something very productive.”If last year was A and a championship is Z, the Mets’ off-season is stuck around F. They are bound to add some pieces here or there, but still have made no moves to improve their pitching, or a lineup that had four starters traded last summer.One of them, right fielder Jay Bruce, went to Callaway’s Indians and helped them reach 102 victories. Then they lost in the playoffs to the Yankees. Callaway got a new job, but remains in their shadow.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementChris Froome, a four-time winner of the Tour de France, including its last three editions, tested positive for excessive levels of an asthma drug last fall.In a urine test taken at the Vuelta a España in September, Froome, of Britain, was found to have double the allowable level of the drug, Salbutamol. Froome won the race.“My asthma got worse at the Vuelta so I followed the team doctor’s advice to increase my Salbutamol dosage. As always, I took the greatest care to ensure that I did not use more than the permissible dose.Advertisement“I take my leadership position in my sport very seriously. The U.C.I. is absolutely right to examine test results and, together with the team, I will provide whatever information it requires.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementThe U.C.I., the sport’s governing body, said a B sample analysis had confirmed the positive test. But it said it would not act to discipline Froome until further study of the samples was completed.Froome had planned to ride in the Giro d’Italia in the spring in a bid to hold the titles of all three major Tours — Spain, Italy and France — simultaneously. He also planned to pursue a record-tying fifth Tour title in July.Froome, 32, joins a long list of cycling champions who have run into trouble over doping. Most famously, Lance Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour titles over drug use. Alberto Contador lost the 2010 title and Floyd Landis the 2006 championship. Many of the other winners, starting the late 1990s, including Marco Pantani, Jan Ullrich and Bjarne Riis, also have been caught up in doping scandals.An earlier version of this article misstated the month the Tour de France takes place. It is July, not August.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byA treasure, possibly worth half a million dollars, may lie behind a granite slab at the base of the Bloomingdale’s flagship store in Manhattan, just a few feet from a window displaying designer handbags: a baseball signed by Babe Ruth.On April 23, 1930, according to several newspaper accounts, the ball and some other valuable items were entombed in a cornerstone there, at the northeast corner of Lexington Avenue and 59th Street, marking the beginnings of an addition to the store.“Hundreds of shoppers halted at the scene,” The New York American reported the next day, as the polished granite was lowered by rope while store executives and city officials watched from a platform, top hats in hand and boutonnieres in the lapels of their suits.The stone looked about the same last week, its “Erected 1930” engraving nearly as sharp as it was in pictures from 87 years ago. A young man, wearing a black leather jacket and chomping on gum, leaned against the engraving and fiddled with his cellphone.If there is a treasure there, he and everyone else on the busy sidewalk that day will most likely never find out.The capsule believed to contain the Ruth baseball is supposed to stay closed until April 2130 — 200 years after the cornerstone-laying ceremony, according to news reports about the event. And it is impossible to know whether the baseball has survived behind the facade — and if so, whether it can last 113 more years. There is even a chance that it was never sealed into the cornerstone in the first place.Although several newspapers reported that a baseball signed by Ruth had been placed there, executives connected to the store today, including a Bloomingdale descendant, said they had never heard of it.John Ernst, 76, whose grandfather Samuel J. Bloomingdale spoke at the ceremony in 1930, said that he did not remember hearing stories about the cornerstone and that the family, as far as he knew, had no records of the event.“This goes back so far,” said Ernst, a managing member of B. Bros. Realty, which owns the store’s building and the land beneath it, “it kind of got lost.”Anne Keating, a Bloomingdale’s spokeswoman, said some current company executives were aware of a time capsule but didn’t know what was inside until this spring.Last summer, Laurie Gwen Shapiro, an author who was researching a book about Richard Byrd’s expedition to Antarctica from 1928 to 1930, came across a news clipping about the Bloomingdale’s ceremony as she pored over brittle scrapbooks in New York libraries.Newspaper accounts about the ceremony described two boxes left in the cornerstone, one containing prosaic items like coins and newspapers, another filled with what The Herald Tribune called “an unusual miscellany.”That second box, newspapers said, was supposed to include the Ruth ball, a golf ball signed by Bobby Jones, a horseshoe, a radio set, a wedding ring, a cocktail shaker, a piece of talking picture film and predictions of the future written by prominent Americans. Among those invited to offer predictions, The Herald Tribune said, were President Calvin Coolidge, who had left office the year before, as well as Henry Ford, Florenz Ziegfeld and Ruth.That collection, said Nick Yablon, a cultural historian and professor at the University of Iowa, was effectively a time capsule, although the term was not formally used until 1938.The tradition of placing objects into cornerstones dates to the Mesopotamians, who tucked gems and messages to the future into building foundations, according to Knute Berger, a founder of the International Time Capsule Society.But never, Berger said, had he heard of a cornerstone containing an artifact “as Holy Grail-ish” as a baseball autographed by Ruth.If the ball is there and well preserved, it could be the most valuable single-signed baseball ever — worth as much as $500,000 at auction, said Leila Dunbar, an appraiser of sports memorabilia, and Mike Heffner, the president of Lelands.com, a sports memorabilia auction house.Balls autographed by Ruth are not especially rare. In fact, Dunbar said, he “ushered in the era of professional athlete signing.” But she said the Bloomingdale’s ball would gain value from “perfect provenance” — the remarkable back story of its many years in hiding and the fact that it dates to 1930, when Ruth was at the peak of his fame.“He was probably the best known person in America,” Dunbar said, “probably even better than the president.”She and Heffner both said that being sealed off from the world would improve the chances of a ball’s remaining in excellent condition. One reason, Heffner said, is that it would not have been exposed to light, which is harmful to signatures.Other items reportedly in the capsule could also be worth six figures. A ball signed by Jones, who won golf’s Grand Slam in 1930, would be extremely rare and possibly worth up to $100,000, Dunbar said. And Heffner said the predictions, especially if they were handwritten and accurate, could be “almost priceless.”But time capsule experts say water could have seeped into the container, causing damage. “There are plenty of examples of people digging up time capsules, and everything’s crumbled to dust,” Berger said. Or, he said, valuable items could have been stolen before the capsule was sealed into the cornerstone.Keating, the Bloomingdale’s spokeswoman, said in May that the cornerstone had never been altered and that coming renovations would not affect it. And now that the company has become aware of the reports from 1930, she said, “we have no plans to open the cornerstone until it was planned to be opened.”To investigate whether there is anything inside, Jorge Otero-Pailos, the director of historic preservation at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, has suggested methods like ground-penetrating radar and thermal imaging.Not surprisingly, Keating said Bloomingdale’s would not allow such exploration.So the mystery remains, probably unsolvable for generations. Otero-Pailos can see something valuable in that, too. It stokes the imagination, he said, to know that a ball autographed by Ruth could be just beyond a piece of stone on a New York street corner.“It makes you look behind the surface of things,” he said. “To see the city with an inquiring eye and to say, ‘What could be there?’”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementManchester United advanced to the Champions League knockout stage after rallying to beat CSKA Moscow, 2-1, on Tuesday to remain unbeaten at Old Trafford for a club record-equaling 40 successive games.Basel joined United in reaching the next phase out of Group A by downing Benfica, 2-0.Paris Saint-Germain won Group B despite losing at Bayern Munich, 3-1, the second straight loss for P.S.G., the French league leader.Roma beat Qarabag, 1-0, to top Group C ahead of Chelsea, which had already clinched a knockout-round berth. The latter was held to a 1-1 draw at home by Atlético Madrid, which was eliminated after reaching the final in two of the last four years.There could be five English teams among the last 16 for the first time if Liverpool advances on Wednesday.AdvertisementLast year’s runner-up, Juventus, had to wait until the last group game to qualify. Juventus won at Olympiakos, 2-0, and advanced along with Barcelona, which beat Sporting Lisbon by 2-0 and won the group.AdvertisementHere is a look at other Tuesday games:Lukaku volleyed in what was his second goal since September to tie the score in the 64th minute, and Rashford drove home an angled shot to give United the lead.Vitinho gave CSKA Moscow a 1-0 lead seconds before halftime.At Benfica, Basel forward Mohamed Elyounoussi headed in a cross from Michael Lang five minutes into the game and Dimitri Oberlin doubled the lead with another header in the 65th minute.United won the group, finishing 3 points ahead of Basel. CSKA Moscow was left with a berth in the Europa League, and Benfica completed its Champions League campaign without a point.But it was not enough for P.S.G., which was coming off a stunning 2-1 loss to lowly Strasbourg in the French league over the weekend.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Robert Lewandowski got Bayern Munich off to a flying start and Corentin Tolisso doubled the German club’s lead before the break. Bayern needed just two more in the second half to top the group, but Mbappé dented those hopes soon after halftime when he headed home a ball sent in by Edinson Cavani.Both sides finished with 15 points, well ahead of Celtic and Anderlecht, both of which had 3. Anderlecht beat Celtic in Glasgow, 1-0, but Celtic finished third to take the Europa League place.AdvertisementBut more intrigue came after the final whistle, as the Chelsea-Atlético match in England still had a couple of more minutes to go. The Roma squad waited in front of their fans and, as soon as the big screen showed the other match was over, there were huge cheers from players and supporters.Demoted to the Europa League, Atlético will miss the Champions League knockout phase for the first time in five years. But even if Atlético had held onto its lead, which it secured in the 56th minute on a goal by Saúl Ñíguez, it would not have been enough to finish in the top two due to Roma’s victory.Chelsea got its equalizer in the 75th minute when defender Stefan Savic turned Eden Hazard’s shot into his own net, helping the club to finish second. Qarabag finished at the bottom of the group.Cuadrado lunged forward to meet a cross from Alex Sandro and beat Olympiakos goalkeeper Silvio Proto in the 15th minute.Juventus Coach Massimiliano Allegri left striker Mario Mandzukic on the bench as he recovered from a calf injury, but the club looked comfortable playing in a low gear. Olympiakos tired toward the end of the game at Karaiskakis stadium, leaving Bernardeschi with an easy route to a goal in the 90th minute.With Lionel Messi rested by Barcelona for the first hour, forward Paco Alcácer took full advantage of the opportunity by scoring a header in the 59th. Sporting Lisbon’s Jérémy Mathieu, a former Barcelona defender, added an own goal in stoppage time.Go to Home Page »