AdvertisementKUTZTOWN, Pa. — There are only a few dozen international students at the medium-size university nestled here in the Berks County hills, where the clacking hooves of horse-drawn Mennonite buggies can be a more familiar sound than a car horn on the local streets.But on weeknights at 11, the turf field at the center of campus transforms into something like a model United Nations. There, Kutztown students from England, Scotland, South Africa, Australia and Jamaica, along with American players from 22 states, gather to take part in a common affinity: rugby.Despite the odd practice times, there is nothing ragtag about the Kutztown University rugby team. It crisscrosses the country every year for tournaments, and often wins them. The players take yoga classes and perform community service. Their coach, Gregg Jones, a retired chiropractor and former Marine, enforces a curfew, mandatory study halls and an all-too-serious requirement that players make their beds each morning.“This is a varsity program,” said Paul Presinzano, the director of Rugby United, the program’s fund-raising arm.AdvertisementExcept, technically, it is not.Kutztown rugby is a club, meaning it is not run out of the university’s athletic department, not provided access to varsity support staff members or trainers, and not governed under the wide umbrella of the N.C.A.A., the organization synonymous with intercollegiate athletics.AdvertisementYet, last Saturday and Sunday, Kutztown was one of 24 teams — most of them clubs — competing in the eighth annual Collegiate Rugby Championship at Talen Energy Stadium, home of the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer. More than 27,000 fans showed up for the weekend games — exceeding the attendance at 10 college football bowl games last year. And the event was televised nationally by NBC’s sports networks.Kutztown, which plays other sports in the N.C.A.A.’s Division II and boasts a football stadium named after its most famous alumnus, the N.F.L. Hall of Famer Andre Reed, has found that certain club sports can be more vital than it ever anticipated. And in rugby’s success, a glimpse is offered into a future for college sports outside the N.C.A.A. bubble.“Rugby has put us on the map,” said Kenneth Hawkinson, the Kutztown president.It has done so on a shoestring budget that is made up largely of fund-raising by passionate alums like Presinzano, who set a goal of raising $100,000 in 2017. (The team is about halfway there.) The university supports the program, which has more than 50 players, with a modest contribution — $20,000, through its department of recreational services — and players pay dues of $200 each semester, which covers their uniforms and travel bags.Jones, who goes by Doc, is a volunteer, as has been the case since he founded the program in 1986. At the time, college rugby was known for its mostly fraternity party-boy culture, heavy on the drinking and hooliganism. Jones’s team was composed of whoever was already on campus and had expressed even a passing interest.“We were constantly coaching kids who never saw a rugby ball,” he said.Now, Jones and his assistant coach, Larry Chester, scour the world for talent, starting with prospects as young as 13. And their recruiting pitch — come play for Kutztown — does not get as many raised eyebrows as it used to.“Everything we do, the attitude, the culture, the facilities,” Jones said, “it’s all varsity.”AdvertisementThere are two N.C.A.A. Division I men’s rugby programs (California and Army) and a smattering of others across Division II, Division III and the lower-profile National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics. Other colleges, like Penn State, give men’s rugby a quasi-varsity status, with paid coaches and access to trainers and support staff in the athletic department.But Jack Clark, the longtime coach at Cal, which has won 27 national championships since 1980, said the lines between varsity, quasi-varsity and club teams were becoming significantly blurred.“Some teams that are not intercollegiate, you wouldn’t know it by looking at them,” Clark said. “They’re pretty well put together outfits.”B. David Ridpath, an associate professor of sports administration at Ohio University, writes about the growth of so-called hybrid models of club sports in a coming book. The teams are affiliated with the university for marketing but do not have the connection to eligibility and “all the things I think are more problems than actually educational benevolence, as we claim,” he said.The autonomy experienced by the clubs is not unlike that which the so-called Power Five conferences sought when they threatened secession from the N.C.A.A. in 2014, a move that won them at least partial self-governance. Though Jones demands that players maintain a solid grade point average and conduct themselves in a respectable manner, the club is technically student run and student led — and thus free to ignore the N.C.A.A. rule book.Ridpath, a vocal critic of the N.C.A.A. who advocates protecting academic integrity from the commercialization of college sports, said it was a perfect example of a self-sustainable athletic ecosystem independent of the governing body.“I think it shows there are options we can have for kids to be able to play at a very, very high level,” Ridpath said. “These kids don’t have to be N.C.A.A. students for it to actually be a viable commercial product.”There is, indeed, a viable commercial element. Tracey Thompson, executive director of the Kutztown University foundation, said the passion and support from former players had been strong enough to prompt a spinoff outlet, Rugby United, which raises money for the club team. Rugby merchandise is sold in the university bookstore, and, with each game from the college championships broadcast on national television, Kutztown’s national profile is growing.Advertisement“It is moneymaking for the university,” said Hawkinson, the Kutztown president. “Not only with the tuition that the students pay, but also the money raised” thanks to alumni support for the school.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.From 1986 to 1998, Jones said, he paid for most of the program’s needs out of his pocket. But in recent years, the program proved to the university that it was a worthwhile investment.“The university saw the value in really investing in a club that could recruit internationally and all over the country,” said Amy Sandt, Kutztown’s director of recreational services.She said the club’s success had brought “this tiny university name” national recognition. “That was really where the value was seen: We can now reach out to a larger network of people to expand our name.”The team’s success has not hurt, either. Kutztown lost to Cal in the national title game in 2014 and 2015, and produced a member of the USA Rugby team that played in the 2015 World Cup (Niku Kruger).“Any school can do what we did,” Hawkinson said, “if you have the right combination of great, great coaches and a very supportive university.”Dan Payne, the chief executive of USA Rugby, has experienced this firsthand. When he was the coach at Life University, a small N.A.I.A. school outside Atlanta, he established a program that could hold its own on the national level and attract international talent.The Running Eagles reached the final of the C.R.C. this year, where they lost to Cal. The competition between clubs, he said, is raising every team’s level of play.“There’s a much stronger approach to what consists of your daily training environment,” he said. “With the increased competition, it becomes contagious.”AdvertisementFor the most part, the Collegiate Rugby Championship looks like any N.C.A.A. tournament, with sponsors and vendors selling $30 T-shirts. Major conference club teams like U.C.L.A., Wisconsin and Clemson were represented this year, but so were clubs like Arkansas State, St. Mary’s of California, Lindenwood from Missouri and American International College from Massachusetts.There was a concurrent 16-team women’s championship. The N.C.A.A. considers women’s rugby an emerging sport, especially for colleges looking to comply with Title IX deficiencies.There was also one noticeable difference: Alcohol sales, prohibited at many N.C.A.A. sites, were strong (Irish whiskey a particular favorite).United World Sports, a company based in White Plains, N.Y., runs the event, charging between $70 and $117 for a two-day pass. It would have been a lot to ask fans a few years ago. Not anymore.“We’re at the right place at the right time,” the company’s president, Jonathan First, said, expressing relief that his company’s long-term investment in rugby was starting to pay off.The teams play rugby sevens, a more open style of the sport that was reintroduced into the Olympics for 2016 after a 92-year hiatus. Featuring seven players to a side and seven-minute halves, it is fast, frenetic and — its promoters hope — more appealing to younger generations than the more physical, more plodding version of the traditional 15-on-15 game.The action is almost nonstop, and for the uninitiated, it can be hard to follow. As Kutztown was running up the score against Tennessee on Saturday, an administrator was trying to toss T-shirts to fans in the stands after each try.“We’re going to run out of shirts!” Thompson said.Jones had said beforehand that this was one of the best teams he had coached. Though comparisons could be made to the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, Kutztown no longer felt like a Cinderella when it faced a powerhouse like Cal, which beat Kutztown’s Golden Bears in the quarterfinals on Sunday.Advertisement“Years ago, we really wanted to prove ourselves,” said Chester, the assistant coach. “We wanted to prove that this brand was important. We went in with that mind-set as an underdog. We don’t think that anymore.”David Snead, a Kutztown senior from Oxford, England, summed up how things had changed in the just the few years since he arrived.“When you’re looking to play college rugby in the United States,” Snead said, “and you want to play at an elite level, that instantly narrows the scope of which institutions you would consider going to.”That scope is widening.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byParis St.-Germain beat the five-time champion Bayern Munich, 3-0, in the Champions League on Wednesday with unstoppable soccer from its super-expensive forwards.The French side’s formidable attacking lineup tore the visitors’ defense apart on the counterattack and took command of Group B with goals from Dani Alves, Edinson Cavani and Neymar.Kylian Mbappé, who was hired alongside Neymar this summer for a combined 400 million euros, did not score but tormented the Bayern defense throughout with his dribbling ability and speed.After scoring eight goals without conceding in their first two matches, P.S.G. led the group with six points. Bayern and Celtic were tied for second place with three points each.Celtic won 3-0 at Anderlecht in the group’s other match on Wednesday.Bayern enjoyed a good spell in the first half and caused problems to the hosts’ defense but lacked pace and finishing.Batshuayi scored from close range after a cross from the right by Marcos Alonso, stunning the crowd at the new Wanda Metropolitano Stadium.Álvaro Morata had added to his impressive start with Chelsea by scoring a second-half equalizer after Atlético had taken the lead before halftime with a penalty converted by Antoine Griezmann.The result left Chelsea with six points in Group C, two more than Roma, which earlier Wednesday defeated Qarabag 2-1 in Azerbaijan. Atlético stayed with one point.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementThe standout receiver Antonio Callaway and running back Jordan Scarlett were among nine Florida players facing felony fraud charges on Monday on accusations that they transferred money from a stolen credit card to their campus bookstore accounts and used it to buy electronics.Asked whether the potential charges would affect the players’ status with the team, Coach Jim McElwain said, “You’re darn right.” All of the players were suspended from the team but remained enrolled at the university.Defensive lineman Jordan Smith was facing five charges, and offensive lineman Kadeem Telfort was facing 30, according to university police reports.Callaway, Scarlett and five other players — defensive lineman Keivonnis Davis, defensive lineman Richerd Desir-Jones, linebacker James Houston, linebacker Ventrell Miller and receiver Rick Wells — made one charge each with the stolen card number, ranging in value from $500 to $2,000, the authorities said.AdvertisementArizona’s Carson Palmer completed 29 of 48 passes for 325 yards, and the host Cardinals outgained the Cowboys, 332 yards to 273, but Dak Prescott and Dallas used an efficient ground game to grind out a 28-17 victory.AdvertisementDallas’s Ezekiel Elliott scored on an 8-yard run with less than five minutes remaining for his first touchdown of the season. Palmer became the fourth N.F.L. quarterback to throw 100 touchdown passes for more than one team. (NYT)Coach Doug Pederson confirmed the injuries Monday, saying it was a “devastating” loss. Sproles, 34, has nine returns for touchdowns, including seven on punts.Michael Taylor homered, A. J. Cole (3-5) allowed one run while pitching into the sixth inning, and the Washington Nationals beat the Phillies, 3-1, in Philadelphia. Washington, the National League East champion, extended its franchise record with a 50th road win.Flulike symptoms prevented the five-time All-Star Bryce Harper, out since Aug. 12 with a hyperextended knee, from making his anticipated return to the Nationals’ lineup.Alexandre Lacazette scored both goals as host Arsenal defeated West Bromwich Albion, 2-0, in the Premier League, prolonging a September comeback.AdvertisementArsenal lost two of its first three matches but collected 7 of a possible 9 points this month on top of victories in the Europa League and the League Cup.Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.West Brom midfielder Gareth Barry, 36, made a record 633rd Premier League appearance in the game, passing the mark set by the former Manchester United winger Ryan Giggs.Agnelli was accused of authorizing the sale of season passes and other tickets and has acknowledged meeting with Rocco Dominello, an “ultra” fan linked to the Calabrian ‘Ndrangheta crime mob who has since been sentenced to nearly eight years in prison for scalping.But Agnelli said the meetings had occurred only with large numbers of other fans at celebratory occasions and that the club had never intended to engage in illegal activity.Thunder guard Russell Westbrook, who has yet to sign a contract extension, said that Oklahoma City was where he wanted to be and that he was “happy” about the off-season additions of Carmelo Anthony, who formally completed his move to the team on Monday, and Paul George.AdvertisementWestbrook said he had not signed, a situation that has tempered some of the excitement around the team, because of the birth of his son and a busy travel schedule. He has until Oct. 16 to sign a contract that would be worth more than $200 million.Sloane Stephens, the United States Open champion, and Madison Keys, the runner-up, were knocked out in the first round of the Wuhan Open in China.In their first matches since the final at Flushing Meadows, the 17th-ranked Stephens lost to Wang Qiang of China, 6-2, 6-2, while the 12th-ranked Keys was beaten by her fellow American Varvara Lepchenko, 6-2, 7-6 (4).Thomas Greiss stopped all 25 shots in the Islanders’ 3-0 victory over a visiting Devils split-squad team. Brock Nelson and Mathew Barzal scored first-period goals for the Islanders, and Johnny Boychuk added an empty-netter.Keith Kinkaid played the entire game in goal for the Devils and made 42 saves.In Summerside, Prince Edward Island, the remaining Devils defeated the Ottawa Senators, 8-1, in the Hockeyville Canada game. Pavel Zacha scored two power-play goals in the first period. Cory Schneider had 12 saves for the Devils.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byAt Georgia State’s nursing school, the faculty used to believe that students who got a poor grade in “Conceptual Foundations of Nursing” probably wouldn’t go on to graduation. So they were surprised, after an analysis of student records stretching back a decade, to discover what really made a difference for nursing students: their performance in introductory math.“You could get a C or an A in that first nursing class and still be successful,” said Timothy M. Renick, the vice provost. “But if you got a low grade in your math courses, by the time you were in your junior and senior years, you were doing very poorly.”The analysis showed that fewer than 10 percent of nursing students with a C in math graduated, compared with about 80 percent of students with at least a B+. Algebra and statistics, it seems, were providing an essential foundation for later classes in biology, microbiology, physiology and pharmacology.Georgia State is one of a growing number of colleges and universities using what is known as predictive analytics to spot students in danger of dropping out. Crunching hundreds of thousands and sometimes millions of student academic and personal records, past and present, they are coming up with courses that signal a need for intervention.Health care companies and sports teams have been working with predictive analytics for years. But the approach is in its early stages on campuses. A handful of companies have sprung up in the last few years, working with perhaps 200 universities. They identify trends in the data and create computer programs that monitor student progress and alert advisers when students go off historically successful pathways.Dr. Renick uses Amazon to suggest how predictive analytics work. “When Amazon looks at all your choices of books and makes predictions that you’ll like other books, it doesn’t need to know why you’ll like the third book,” he said. “Our big data doesn’t need to know exactly why a student gets a bad grade. It just happens thousands and thousands of times. We’re looking at a pattern.”At the University of Arizona, a high grade in English comp proved to be crucial to graduation. Only 41 percent of students who got a C in freshman writing ended up with a degree, compared with 61 percent of the B students and 72 percent of A students.“We always figured that if a student got a C, she was fine,” said Melissa Vito, a senior vice provost. “It turns out, a C in a foundation course like freshman composition can be an indicator that the student is not going to succeed.” The university now knows it needs to throw more resources at writing, specifically at those C students.At Middle Tennessee State University, History 2020, an American history course required for most students, has been a powerful predictor. The most consistent feature for those who did not graduate was that they received a D in it. “History is a heavy reading course,” said Richard D. Sluder, vice provost for student success, “so it signifies a need for reading comprehension.”Before predictive analytics, Dr. Sluder said, many of the D’s went unnoticed. That’s because advisers were mainly monitoring grade-point averages, not grades in specific courses. “You take a student who’s getting A’s and B’s and you see a C in this one class,” he said, “and you’d say, ‘He looks fine.’ But, really, he was at risk.”Such insight may revolutionize the way student advising works.Among the historic data that the education tech companies analyze are SAT and ACT scores; personal and demographic information; courses that students are taking and grades they are getting; and behaviors like how frequently they are seeing advisers and tutors and how actively they are engaging in the campus networks where professors post homework assignments, lecture notes, comments and grades.The analytics programs know the paths that successful students have followed. When a student veers off that path, like getting a low grade in a predictor course or taking a course out of sequence, advisers get an alert, a signal to reach out to the student and offer suggestions.One perennial problem is that students register for the wrong classes. “Students think they’re signing up for a particular lab for chem majors,” Dr. Renick said, “but it turns out to be for nonmajors. In the past we might not learn about that until the student was already in the class or even after he had finished the course. Now we’re getting an alert and we get the student into the right class. We had 2,000 students like this last year.”The advisers are linked so that their notes and meetings with students are available for colleagues, just as doctors in hospital systems share notes on patients.Most universities have not been using big data long enough to see improvement in four- or six-year graduation rates. But some evidence indicates a positive impact. The schools that have seen some success have combined analytics with significant investment in other initiatives. Georgia State has more than doubled its advising staff, to about 100, and now meets the national standard of one adviser for 300 students. “It’s a heavy load,” Dr. Renick said, “but in the past we had 750 to one.” In 2016, Georgia State’s four-year graduation rate rose 5 percentage points, to 27 percent, and the six-year rate rose 6 points, to 54 percent.“All of this is important,” said Dr. Sluder. “But the technology is crucial. Take out all the technology and you just don’t get that end result.” Freshman retention at Middle Tennessee has risen 5 percentage points, to 76 percent, in just two years.A few universities are developing their own programs. In September, students at Stanford began using a digital tool based on 15 years of data that helps them in the daunting task of choosing from among some 5,000 undergraduate classes.“No single adviser, however wise and alert, can possibly be aware of all the instructional opportunities,” said Mitchell L. Stevens, an associate professor of education who led in the development of the program.Freshmen at the University of Michigan began using a tool in the fall that mixes their personal and academic data with data on how earlier students did, advice from them and study guides from professors. After students complete a survey about their expectations for success in a course, the program digs into the data to see if those expectations are realistic. When they sign on, it takes them through questions and answers in what feels like a conversation.“Hello, Kate. You told us that the grade you want to receive is a B. This is a good goal for you. You should be more confident that you can achieve this! What if you aim for an even higher grade?”“We are measuring social interaction,” Dr. Ram said. “How many people do they tend to hang out with for different activities, and is their hanging out dropping off week by week or getting stronger? A lot of theoretical work has been done on this.”The findings are put into algorithms to predict who is in danger of not making it to sophomore year.“Most of the predictive-analytics people are looking at grades,” Dr. Ram said. “A lot of times it’s not the grades but whether they feel comfortable and socially integrated. If they are not socially integrated, they drop out.”Dr. Ram has tracked nearly 30,000 students over the last three years. Matching her findings against actual dropouts, she said, she has an accuracy rate of about 85 percent, but her project is still in the testing phase. She says identities are kept private.“There are risks,” Mr. Kurzweil said. “But I think the people in predictive analytics are mostly white hats, and they’re doing it because they really believe they’re helping students.”Still, he described the field as a little like the Wild West: “They’ve pushed ahead quickly without setting up the kinds of standards and governance that will mitigate risk.”In June, Ithaka S + R and a team from Stanford brought together 73 specialists from universities, analytics companies, foundations and the Department of Education for three days of discussion on developing standards and ethical guidelines for big data on college campuses. They met at the Asilomar Conference Grounds on the Monterey Peninsula, where 41 years earlier scientists started work on the first guidelines for genetic research.Some universities are staying on the sidelines. The financial commitment — a half-million dollars or more over the course of a three-year contract that includes data analysis, software and training — is significant. Some are simply uneasy about the concept, Mr. Kurzweil said, or are not convinced predictive analytics really works.Laura Mercer, chief of staff to the president of Sinclair College, a two-year school in Dayton, Ohio, tells a story to counter that view. At Sinclair, a C in general psychology or in “Foundations of Business” was found to be a sign that students majoring in those subjects won’t make it. She decided to take a look at the records of a few students who had taken the psychology course.One woman who was planning to major in psychology had taken it and three other courses as a freshman in the fall of 2014. She earned three A’s and a C.“It was a pretty decent start,” Ms. Mercer said. “But guess what? The C was in Psych 1100.” In the spring of 2015, the student signed up for five classes. She withdrew from one. The next semester she withdrew from three of her five classes. This fall she took four classes and withdrew from all of them.“It was just what the analytics had predicted,” Ms. Mercer said. “I tend to be a little skeptical. It wasn’t until I dove into the records and I saw, ‘Yes, indeed, this is a problem.’ ”Joseph B. Treaster, a former Times reporter, is now a professor in the School of Communication at the University of Miami.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementPHILADELPHIA — Lawyers for professional football players who reached a landmark settlement with the N.F.L. over concussions said Tuesday that hundreds of their clients may have been swindled by unscrupulous lenders and advisers looking for a cut of their payments.In a hearing in federal court here, Christopher Seeger, a lawyer for the retired players who sued the N.F.L., said nearly 1,000 ex-players had signed dubious contracts with lenders and lawyers. Nearly a dozen lenders have lent money at interest rates of 50 percent or more to players who will pay them back with money they receive from the estimated $1 billion settlement, which provides up to $5 million to players with dementia, Parkinson’s disease and other serious neurological conditions.In the last few months, players have also signed contracts with law firms and so-called claims service providers that promise to help players file settlement claims in return for 10 or 15 percent of any cash awards. Some of these firms work with the lenders as well as brokers, who receive fees for referring players.“We don’t want to watch these awards be cannibalized,” Seeger told Judge Anita B. Brody of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, who is overseeing the settlement. Judge Brody had called the hearing in response to news reports, including those in The New York Times, of what she called “purportedly deceptive or misleading solicitations” of former players.AdvertisementAdvertisementIn July, Brody gave Seeger permission to compel the lenders and law firms to turn over information about how they sought to sign up players. In all, Seeger pursued documents and information from 36 people or companies, though some firms did not cooperate.Seeger and a partner, TerriAnne Benedetto, detailed a litany of questionable practices, including charging players thousands of dollars in fees for loans with 50 percent interest rates; lenders paying fees to brokers for referrals; and former players being paid fees to convince those who qualify for the settlement to sign agreements with lawyers and lenders, some of whom promised to introduce the ex-players to doctors who could help them get larger amounts in the settlement.Benedetto provided several examples, including a player who received $10,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $17,310 from his settlement payout in one year. Another received $312,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $568,000 once he receives his settlement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Benedetto also mentioned Joe Pisarcik, a former quarterback for the Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles who once led the N.F.L. Alumni Association and had access to a database of retired players. Pisarcik received $200,000 from two law firms that wanted to use his name to help sign up former players.She said Pisarcik was also offered bonuses of up to $75,000 for every 25 players with diagnoses covered under the settlement that he referred to the law firms.Benedetto said that Pisarcik provided emails that showed that he tried to stop the lawyers from sending a deliberately misleading pitch letter with his name on it to former players. The law firms represented 92 former players before they retained Pisarcik, then signed up an additional 241 clients after he became a consultant to the firms.Benedetto said that some lenders had refused requests for documents.To date, 1,200 claims from former players or their representatives have been filed, out of about 20,000 players who are eligible to file claims.AdvertisementMore than $130 million in claims have been approved so far, mostly for players who had previously received a diagnosis for a condition covered by the settlement. Some of that money has not been dispersed yet, though, because the settlement administrator must deduct money to repay Medicare and legal fees. Some awards have also been audited because of potential red flags, including doctors thought to have written incorrect diagnoses for players.Seeger told the judge he was worried, though, that the administration of the settlement could get bogged down if the lenders or lawyers ask the claims administrator to be paid before players receive their awards.Seeger said that he may ask the judge to pursue criminal claims against lawyers and advisers who filed false claims or asked doctors to write improper diagnoses for players.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byPITTSBURGH — The difference in the Pittsburgh Steelers’ defense, inside linebacker Ryan Shazier insists, is not in what happens after the snap, but before it.The younger players, like nose tackle Javon Hargrave, cornerback Artie Burns and safety Sean Davis, spent most of 2016 listening during their promising rookie seasons, but now they are talking. So is everyone else.“It’s definitely a lot louder,” Shazier said. “Guys are aware of each other and what can happen on a play before they even line up in their formation.”Shazier knows this better than anyone. He wears the dot on his helmet that designates the defensive player who has a radio transmitter, getting the call from defensive coordinator Keith Butler. The play is echoed up and down the line of scrimmage as the Steelers point, jump around and shout out reminders and tendencies.“Once I call the play, everybody starts communicating: ‘They might run this, they might run that,’” Shazier said. “Or they’ll go: ‘Hey, slide over. You? Bump over and get in better alignment.’”It might seem chaotic, but it is not. The proof is in the way the unbeaten Steelers are executing. Through two weeks, Pittsburgh has allowed just 474 total yards, fifth among teams that have played two full games. Sure, the Steelers have faced a rookie quarterback making his first N.F.L. start (DeShone Kizer of Cleveland) and another who got the starting assignment minutes before kickoff (Minnesota’s Case Keenum), but the team is confident its success is not a mirage.“Everybody can say the quarterbacks or whatever, but we’re not really worrying about that,” Hargrave said. “We’re just going out there, playing, trying to get to the quarterback and stop the run.”They did both on Sunday. In a 26-9 victory over Minnesota, Pittsburgh chased Keenum around the pocket and limited Dalvin Cook, the Vikings’ rookie running back, to 64 yards on 12 carries, 25 of them coming on one run in the third quarter that set up Minnesota’s only touchdown. It is telling that the unit’s lone major mistake — and not the other 55 offensive plays Minnesota ran to largely minimal effect — is what stuck with the Steelers.“‘Just’ 91 rushing yards?” defensive end Cam Heyward said, referring to the Vikings’ total on Sunday. “That’s still too much. We’ve got to hold ourselves to a higher standard.”And by that, Heyward meant the one that for so long stood among the gold standards in the N.F.L. The Steelers finished in the top 10 in yards allowed every season from 2000 to 2012, including five times when they were No. 1 over all. The precipitous slip began in 2013 as the team lost several important figures who had served as the core of three Super Bowl appearances from 2005 to 2010, including safety Troy Polamalu, defensive end Brett Keisel, cornerback Ike Taylor and the Hall of Fame defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau.But the rebuilding process appears to be nearly complete. When camp opened, Coach Mike Tomlin chose an interesting word to describe the defense, saying it had the talent to be a “dominant” group. For a coach who rarely delves into the big picture, it was a startling pronouncement.It may also end up being accurate. T. J. Watt, a rookie outside linebacker and J. J. Watt’s brother, has been a revelation in two games, picking up two sacks and an interception in the opener and swatting down a pass against Minnesota before leaving with a groin injury. Anthony Chickillo has done something considered nearly impossible for most of the last 12 years — he moved in front of James Harrison on the depth chart.Harrison, 39, dressed but did not play against Minnesota, staying on the sideline when Chickillo filled in for the injured Watt. Chickillo finished with four tackles on defense, another on special teams and a hit on the quarterback. Harrison’s day off is more a sign of Chickillo’s progress, one mirrored in other parts of the defense.Defensive back Mike Hilton, who made the team off the practice squad, picked up eight tackles and even found a chance to drill Keenum on a well-designed blitz. Joe Haden, signed at the end of training camp, had another quiet afternoon. Burns knocked down a pass and recovered a fumble that effectively sealed the competitive portion of things.All those splash plays start with word of mouth.“When you have communication from multiple guys, there’s less room for error,” Heyward said.There have been few mental mistakes. A trip to Chicago and another quarterback with problems — Mike Glennon — await. The Steelers understand it is far too early to start thinking that they are back to their old selves. Maybe that’s because they are just simply not that old. Defensive back William Gay and defensive end Tyson Alualu were the only starters who were 30 or older against Minnesota. At the same time, Watt was the only rookie to get a significant number of snaps.Pittsburgh’s defense is young but also experienced. After spending the off-season hearing about how it could be the weak spot compared to the “Killer B” offense, the reality could prove to be considerably different.“It’s one of our big goals this year to be one of the best defenses,” Hargrave said. With both the offense and defense clicking, he added, “that’s a great combination.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byThe judge overseeing the N.F.L. concussion settlement said on Wednesday that the plaintiffs’ lawyers could look into whether lenders, claims service providers and other companies are duping former players into signing contracts for unneeded services.The companies, some of which have hired former players as pitchmen, often fail to note that players can fill out the paperwork on their own, and that court-appointed advisers are available at no cost. Some companies have also promised to introduce players to doctors who, they claim, will write diagnoses to make a player look in worse condition as a way to qualify for a larger settlement.In a notice issued on Wednesday, the judge, Anita B. Brody of United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, said she would hold a hearing in September to address what she called “deceptive practices” that target former players. She also said she would “address the legality of any agreements” between the players and these claims service companies, and could potentially void those agreements.Before the hearing, the judge said lawyers who represented the retired players in their settlement with the N.F.L. could now request documents from any person or company “who has sent purportedly deceptive or misleading solicitations” to former players, as well as review contracts or retainers signed by former players and any referral agreements related to former players.The 20,000 or so former N.F.L. players have until Aug. 7 to register for the settlement, which includes a promise by the league to spend hundreds of millions of dollars for players with severe neurological and cognitive problems.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOne by one, over the course of several weeks, the top male tennis players dropped out of the United States Open because of injuries.But with all the chaos and general lack of star power, some semblance of order Friday was maintained when Nadal reached the U.S. Open final again.In a semifinal that many felt was the de facto final, Nadal mercilessly ran No. 24 Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina into exhaustion, 4-6, 6-0, 6-3, 6-2, in Arthur Ashe Stadium to reach his 23rd Grand Slam final. On Sunday, Nadal will face No. 28-seeded Kevin Anderson of South Africa, who will be playing his first Grand Slam final.Anderson, 31, beat the 12th-seeded Pablo Carreño Busta, 4-6, 7-5, 6-3, 6-4, in the first semifinal of the day, which had a distinct warm-up act feel to it.The marquee event came later in an intriguing matchup between del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion still working his way back from multiple wrist surgeries, and Nadal, a winner here in 2010 and 2013 who is starting to look as good as he did in those years.“I was playing so-so at the beginning of the tournament,” Nadal, 31, said, “and I have been playing better and better every day.”That does not bode particularly well for the oft-injured Anderson. He possesses a powerful serve that could theoretically trouble Nadal in their fifth head-to-head encounter on Sunday. But Nadal won their four previous meetings and has the experience of winning 15 major titles, second only to Federer’s 19. He also earned his 15th consecutive Grand Slam semifinal victory, a streak that began after del Potro beat at the U.S. Open in 2009.He has not been perfect during his run in New York, but he is getting stronger, combining his relentless defense with an increasingly sharp serve and the shrewd tactics of a veteran clay-court specialist.“He played so smart from the second set till the end of the match,” del Potro said.After a first set in which Nadal seemed reluctant to hit the ball to del Potro’s high-powered forehand, Nadal summoned his strategic acumen to change the course of the match.He had been peppering del Potro’s weaker backhand cross court with his lefty forehand, but del Potro was equal to the challenge, at least in the first set. He camped out on the ad side of the court and waited for the right moment to hit penetrating backhands down the line.As del Potro wore down, he had increasing difficulty with his forehand and his backhand, the shot most affected by his wrist injuries.“Most important thing is, after the first set, in my opinion, he didn’t hit balls in a row from good positions,” Nadal said. “That makes the difference.”During one stretch, Nadal won nine consecutive games and 10 out of 11 in the second and third sets. While del Potro staggered to and fro, Nadal only gained strength, urging himself on with repeated fist pumps. With one more win, he will match Federer’s two improbable major titles in 2017.“It is probably the most important match for me that remains this year,” Nadal said.While Nadal consolidated his hold on the No. 1 ranking, Anderson, at No. 32, is the lowest-ranked player to reach a U.S. Open final since the inception of the rankings system in 1973.Anderson and Carreño Busta do not have the name recognition of Nadal or even del Potro, so the audience in Ashe Stadium was relatively subdued during their match.But it did not matter to the emotional Anderson, who also became the lowest-ranked finalist at a major since 38th-ranked Jo-Wilfried Tsonga at the 2008 Australian Open.Anderson was already the first South African to reach a U.S. Open men’s semifinal since Johan Kriek in 1980. Cliff Drysdale was the last player from South Africa to reach the final at the U.S. championships, in 1965. He lost to Manuel Santana of Spain.After he beat Carreño Busta, Anderson raised his arms, took off his white cap and then climbed into his team box to celebrate in a fashion usually reserved for the championship round.“I will be playing for a Grand Slam trophy,” Anderson said. “That’s an amazing feeling. I have to get ready. Still obviously a very difficult match ahead of me, but I think right now I’m just trying to unwind a little bit and just enjoy sort of today’s match.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingKetel Marte and Brandon Drury homered in a three-run sixth inning to bolster a strong outing by Zack Godley, and the Arizona Diamondbacks extended their winning streak to 10 games with a 5-1 victory on Sunday over the Colorado Rockies in Denver.The streak is the Diamondbacks’ longest since they captured a franchise-best 12 straight in 2003.Godley (7-7) allowed three hits, walked six and struck out seven over six innings to help Arizona sweep a three-game series from the Rockies. The Diamondbacks increased their lead over Colorado for the top National League wild-card spot to six and a half games. The slumping Rockies’ lead over Milwaukee for the second wild card was trimmed to just a half-game.The P.G.A. champion Justin Thomas made three long birdies on a long, wet TPC Boston course in Norton, Mass., for a tournament-best 63, giving him a share of the lead with Marc Leishman going into a Labor Day finish in the Dell Technologies Championship.Leishman also played a bogey-free round and had three straight birdies on the back nine for a 65.They were at 12-under-par 201 with no room for error on a leaderboard that was packed with some of golf’s best players.Paul Casey, who played in the final group last year at TPC Boston, shot a 67 and was one shot behind. Jordan Spieth birdied his final two holes and was among those two shots back. Dustin Johnson, who birdied four of his final five holes, was three behind.Lewis’s $195,000 in winnings will go to relief efforts, and her sponsor, KPMG, pledged to match the donation.Lewis, 32, won her 12th L.P.G.A. Tour title and her first since June 2014, ending a frustrating stretch that included 12 runner-up finishes. She closed with a three-under 69 to hold off In Gee Chun by a stroke at Columbia Edgewater.Tiny Luxembourg held host France to a shocking 0-0 draw in Toulouse in Group A World Cup qualifying.The point kept France on top of the group, 1 point ahead of Sweden, which thrashed host Belarus, 4-0, in Borisov. The Netherlands was in third after defeating Bulgaria, 3-1, in Amsterdam, preserving faint Dutch hopes of qualifying for Russia.In Group H, Romelu Lukaku gave Belgium a 2-1 win over host Greece in Piraeus and secured his team a place in Russia. Belgium is unbeaten in qualifying. Two goals from Edin Dzeko helped Bosnia and Herzegovina beat Gibraltar, 4-0, in Faro, Portugal, to leapfrog Greece into second place.In Group B, Switzerland extended its perfect World Cup qualifying record by defeating host Latvia, 3-0, in Riga for an eighth straight victory, while Cristiano Ronaldo’s Portugal edged Hungary, 1-0, in Budapest to stay close at the top of the group. Earlier, the Faeroe Islands defeated visiting Andorra, 1-0, in Torshavn for its second win, securing its best ever qualifying campaign.Cam Newton is no longer the only quarterback in the family who has led a team to an improbable win.His younger brother Caylin made his college debut Saturday, leading Howard University to one of the biggest upsets in the sport’s history, a 43-40 victory at Nevada-Las Vegas. The Bison, a Football Championship Subdivision program, were 45-point underdogs against the Rebels.Newton ran for 190 yards and two touchdowns and passed for 140 yards with a touchdown and an interception.Members of unions representing Cleveland police officers and paramedics said they would not hold a large United States flag during ceremonies before Sunday’s Cleveland Browns season opener after a group of Browns players knelt during the national anthem before a preseason game last month.Nearly a dozen Browns players knelt in a circle and prayed silently during the anthem before a preseason home game Aug. 21 against the Giants. A smaller group of players placed hands on the shoulders of their kneeling teammates.The Jets claimed Tye, a former Giants tight end, off waivers a day after N.F.L. teams trimmed their rosters from 90 to 53 players.The team also claimed wide receivers Damore’ea Stringfellow and Kalif Raymond and linebacker Edmond Robinson. It released linebacker Bruce Carter and waived linebacker Freddie Bishop, running back Marcus Murphy and tight end Jason Vander Laan.Lewis Hamilton won the Italian Grand Prix in Monza virtually unchallenged from pole position and moved ahead of Sebastian Vettel to take the lead in the drivers’ standings. Hamilton finished nearly five seconds ahead of his Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas. Hamilton has 238 points, 3 more than Ferrari’s Vettel, with seven races remaining.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementJames Andrew Miller’s “Powerhouse: The Untold Story of Hollywood’s Creative Artists Agency” has a terrific subject for a sprawling narrative, since CAA has been at the vortex of Hollywood and commerce for more than four decades. The story has great characters, plenty of boldface names and surprising twists.“Almost any of Shakespeare’s political tragedies, or comedies, could serve as road maps to the backstage drama surrounding CAA through the decades,” Miller writes. “CAA long ago ceased to be a traditional talent agency, and what started out as a television representation business had since spiraled into movies, music, investment banking, advertising, marketing and most recently, sports.”As in his previous books (with a co-­author, Tom Shales), “Live From New York” (about “Saturday Night Live”) and “Those Guys Have All the Fun” (ESPN), Miller is mostly an invisible hand. “Powerhouse” is largely a series of direct quotations strung together in more or less chronological and topical order. While I wouldn’t go so far as to call the story “untold” (many of the key events were widely reported and written about), Miller has done an extraordinary number of interviews (more than 500, he says), and simply organizing and piecing together this wealth of material is a feat. Even more impressive is Miller’s ability to get nearly everyone involved not only to talk but also to go on the record, which is remarkable given the notorious culture of secrecy in Hollywood.Still, there are drawbacks to this approach. Few sources are naturally good storytellers, even in the entertainment business. It’s hard for Miller to build up much narrative steam, and just when he gets it going, someone rambles off on a tangent. Some sections are filled with tedious details only an insider could ­appreciate.AdvertisementThere are too many sources doubling as characters and too many walk-on appearances. (You get a sense of what you’re in for when the cast of characters at the front of the book runs to 11 single-spaced, ­double-columned ­pages.)AdvertisementTransitions are nonexistent, jarring or confusing. At times Miller has to abandon the quotations and supply some much-needed connective tissue. This is also an inefficient way to tell a story — I’d estimate a more conventional narrative could have done the job in half the book’s 700-plus pages. But for readers with the patience to sift through all this semi-raw material, “Powerhouse” delivers a chronicle of vaunting ambition, immense wealth and power, and personal betrayal all the more astonishing in a business ostensibly built on loyalty and trust.Michael Ovitz and Ron Meyer, the most important of the five co-founders of CAA, loom large as both quoted sources and the most fully developed and fascinating characters. They had a remarkably close and symbiotic relationship, Meyer warm and affable, Ovitz cerebral and tough. “I didn’t trust anyone in my life more than Ron Meyer — no one, except for maybe my wife,” Ovitz says.They had help from others, but it was their fierce determination, hard work and single-minded devotion to clients and CAA that turned a fledgling talent agency into an entertainment colossus. It’s no wonder being an agent is a young person’s job: The actress Ali MacGraw packed her suitcase and walked out of a passionate romance with Meyer when he wouldn’t get off the phone with a client early one Saturday morning. (He says he doesn’t blame her.)Ovitz was once widely acknowledged as the most powerful man in Hollywood, perhaps the most powerful business person in Hollywood ever (at his peak even President Clinton was eating out of his hand). When Earvin (Magic) Johnson suggested Ovitz might someday run a studio, he replied: “Earvin, I don’t have to run a studio. I run them all now anyway.”Then Ovitz overreached and fell ignobly to earth. He blew opportunities to run two major studios — Universal and Sony — by making outrageous demands for autonomy and compensation. But why wouldn’t he have? He’d built a career on outrageous demands — for both himself and his clients — and they were invariably met.After CAA orchestrated the wildly successful 1993 polar bear ad campaign for Coca-Cola, a senior Coke executive put a $10 million check, payable to Ovitz, in the hands of a toy polar bear and had it delivered to the company. Ovitz returned the check, unendorsed, with a sticky note: “Let’s discuss this.” Ovitz eventually got $31 million.In 1995 Meyer was sent by Ovitz to New York to meet Edgar Bronfman Jr. (the Seagram’s heir and chief executive, who had just gained control of Universal) and to salvage Ovitz’s shot at running the studio. Meyer emerged with the job himself. “That’s when Ron lost me as a friend,” Judy Ovitz says. “He turned around and took the job that should have gone to Michael.” Ovitz, who never missed an hour let alone a day of work, was so stunned and depressed, people said, that he didn’t come into the office for a week.AdvertisementWith Meyer out and a new generation at CAA — the so-called Young Turks — chafing to take over, Ovitz’s days at the agency he founded were numbered. In his own telling, he was “burned out.”Sign up to receive a preview of each Sunday’s Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For an exit commensurate with his stature, Ovitz accepted an offer from Michael Eisner to be president of Disney. After Meyer, Ovitz probably considered Eisner his best friend, and their two families had been close for years. Ovitz thought — ­erroneously — they’d be running the company as equals. Eisner fired Ovitz after little more than a year.A measure of Ovitz’s power was the vindictiveness with which former friends and colleagues greeted his downfall — none more so than his successors at CAA. As Miller puts it, “Just about anybody in Hollywood with a triple-digit I.Q. heard, firsthand or remotely, about how much the Young Turks resented and even ­hated him.” This seems especially ungrateful since Ovitz had paid them lavishly, ­handed them clients, built the agency and then sold it to them for the bargain price of $175 million. (By 2010, it was valued at $700 million.)True, the Turks — Kevin Huvane, Bryan Lourd, Richard Lovett, Jay Moloney and David O’Connor — thought they’d been lied to or misled about matters large and small: who earned what; whether CAA owned a private jet; who had an equity stake in CAA’s headquarters building. But none of that seems adequate to explain the intensity of their resentment (which the more genial Meyer seems to have escaped). Miller speculates: “The Young Turks were prodigal sons, with the agency functioning like the trust fund a rich kid gets when turning 25.”But the Turks seem to have risen to the challenge. They had to cope not only with the inevitable upheavals that accompany succession but also with tectonic changes in the entertainment business, starting with the collapse of the DVD market and the withering of revenues from feature films, which once contributed the major portion of CAA’s profits.These new leaders had to rethink the nature of the agency business, pushing boldly beyond marketing and investment banking, the expanded boundaries Ovitz and Meyer had laid down. It’s hard to manage change of that magnitude.For CAA, the biggest financial change came in 2010, when it sold a 35 percent stake to one of the biggest and most successful private equity firms, TPG Capital, for $166 million. TPG got a majority share four years later in a financing deal that raised another $435 million, which lifted the value of CAA to more than $1 billion. The infusion of capital enabled the company to become a principal — not just an intermediary — by investing its own capital in projects.It’s too soon to know how that’s going to turn out. We may find out if and when CAA is sold again or goes public, which, for a private equity firm like TPG, would typically be seven to nine years after making the investment.AdvertisementMiller suggests CAA’s best days are behind it. Today, only three of the Young Turks remain at the firm. Moloney, the one closest to Ovitz, who had been viewed as his chosen successor, died in 1999 after struggling with cocaine addiction, apparently by suicide. After 32 years at CAA, O’Connor left in 2015 to become chief executive of Madison Square Garden.CAA is now big and impersonal and focused on the bottom line, which seems to have taken a lot of the fun out of being an agent there (not to mention reading about them). Even so, if money and power are the measure of success in Hollywood, then access to the hundreds of millions in capital TPG delivered gives CAA the potential to be far more powerful than anything Ovitz and Meyer ever envisioned.But money and power may not be the only or even best measure of success in Hollywood. Perhaps I’m naïve, but I came away from the book with the sense that CAA’s most enduring legacy will be the impact its agents had on the lives and careers of their many clients, amply documented in “Powerhouse.” The best of the entertainment they created will be remembered long after CAA is gone.“I think it’s a ghastly way to make a living,” Ali MacGraw says of the agent business. “But if you’re really good at it like Ron was, you must gain some tremendous happiness by changing people’s lives so dramatically.”Ovitz may still be reviled by some, but not his clients. “I’ve never known anybody like Mike Ovitz,” David Letterman says. “There is nobody like him. He was such an overwhelming positive force, and in show business there are not many positive ­forces. He put me back on my feet. It’s comparable to my heart surgery, for God’s sake.”James B. Stewart writes “Common Sense,” a weekly business column, for The Times and is the author of nine books, including “DisneyWar” and “Den of Thieves.”See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »