AdvertisementForward Kylian Mbappe’s expected move to Paris St.-Germain finally went through Thursday evening, as Monaco loaned him until the end of the season along with an option to make the move permanent. No financial details were given by P.S.G. in its statement, but the permanent deal would be from 2018 to 2022.Although no transfer fee has been given by either French club, it was widely reported that P.S.G. will pay an astonishing 180 million euros ($216 million) for Mbappe, an 18-year-old who burst onto the scene last season.“It’s with great joy and pride that I’m joining Paris St.-Germain,” Mbappe said in a statement. “For all young people who grew up in the Paris region, it’s often a dream to be able to wear the red and blue shirt.”It means that P.S.G. now has unprecedented status as effectively owning the world’s two most expensive players, with the Brazilian star Neymar bought for a world-record 222 million euros ($262 million).AdvertisementAdvertisementChelsea did manage to sign midfielder Danny Drinkwater from 2016 champion Leicester for a reported 35 million pounds ($45 million) and defender Davide Zappacosta from the Italian club Torino. Barkley’s rejection stunned Chelsea after midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain opted to leave Arsenal for Liverpool and forward Fernando Llorente favored a move to Tottenham from Swansea.Aldrick Rosas hit a 48-yard field goal as time expired, giving the Giants a 40-38 victory over the New England Patriots in the final exhibition game for both teams in Foxborough, Mass.The Giants scored 34 points in the first half, but the Patriots outscored them by 24-3 over the final 29 minutes before Rosas’ field goal. It helped salvage a night in which Geno Smith and Josh Johnson each had touchdown passes, and the Giants’ defense returned an interception for a touchdown.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The third-stringer Jacoby Brissett threw for 341 yards and four touchdowns, and ran for another to nearly lead the Super Bowl champions back from a 20-point halftime deficit. Stephen Gostkowski hit a 55-yard go-ahead field goal with 44 seconds remaining.AdvertisementMcCown took a shot to his chest from Eagles linebacker Joe Walker after completing a 20-yard pass to Austin Seferian-Jenkins with 7 minutes 13 seconds left in the opening quarter. He was down on a knee for a few moments before jogging off the field and then going down to a knee again as trainers attended to him. He missed one play.Mason Rudolph threw for 303 yards and three touchdowns and ran for another score to help No. 10 Oklahoma State beat Tulsa, 59-24, in Stillwater, Okla.The Baltimore Orioles’ seven-game winning streak ended under a barrage of home runs by Kendrys Morales, who went deep three times and had a career-high seven R.B.I. to provide the visiting Toronto Blue Jays with an 11-8 victory.Sacramento Kings forward Zach Randolph has been charged with misdemeanor marijuana possession and resisting arrest following an incident this month when a large gathering became unruly at a Los Angeles housing project, prosecutors said. Randolph, a two-time N.B.A. All-Star, had initially been arrested on suspicion of possessing marijuana with intent to sell — a felony — but Los Angeles city prosecutors instead charged Randolph with misdemeanor drug possession.In Gee Chun of South Korea shot a six-under 66 in the Cambia Portland Classic in Portland, Ore., to take a one-stroke lead over the two-time defending champion Brooke Henderson and five others.Chris Froome crashed twice as rivals reduced his Vuelta a España lead in Stage 12, which was won by the Lotto-Soudal rider Tomasz Marczynski. Vincenzo Nibali cut 20 seconds off Froome’s advantage and now trails by 59 seconds in second place.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byFall back, spring forward. Daylight saving time begins on Sunday, so instead of bemoaning the hour lost on sleep, we’ve rounded up the best stories for you to read with the extra hour of sunlight. Hello, spring!______________________________AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingRafael Nadal withstood a challenge from David Goffin, 7-6 (3), 6-2, to reach the Madrid Open semifinals. In a meeting between the players with the most match wins this year, Nadal saved all five break points he faced to win his 13th straight match.Goffin, who has 27 victories, was trying to make it to his third final this season. He saved all six break opportunities he conceded to Nadal in the first set, but Nadal took control of the tiebreaker under the closed roof on center court.Nadal, a four-time champion in Madrid, had an easier time in the second set after earning an early break, and he closed out the match with another at the end.Nadal’s tour-leading 32nd victory set up a semifinal against the defending champion Novak Djokovic, who advanced when Kei Nishikori withdrew before their match because of a wrist injury.On the women’s side, the defending champion Simona Halep cruised past Anastasija Sevastova, 6-2, 6-3, to reach the final, where she will face Kristina Mladenovic.The Dallas Stars have signed goaltender Ben Bishop to a six-year, $29.5 million deal. General Manager Jim Nill announced the terms less than a week after acquiring the rights to Bishop, 30, from the Los Angeles Kings for a fourth-round pick in next month’s draft.Stephane Da Costa saved France in a tense 4-3 shootout win against Belarus in Paris that kept his team’s quarterfinal hopes alive, while co-host Germany lost to Denmark in overtime in Cologne. With the top four teams from each group advancing to the quarterfinals, Germany was in fifth place in Group A and France in sixth in Group B.A former gymnast testified in Mason, Mich., that as a teenager, she had turned to a prominent sports doctor for treatment of back problems but instead was repeatedly molested. Theassaults have haunted her for nearly two decades, she said.Rachael Denhollander, 32, was the first witness to speak at a critical court hearing for Larry Nassar, a former Michigan State University doctor who also worked for U.S.A. Gymnastics, which trains Olympians. A judge must decide whether there is enough evidence to send him to trial on sexual-assault charges.It is one of four criminal cases against Nassar, including a child pornography case in federal court. He has pleaded not guilty. The allegations have rocked Michigan State and U.S.A. Gymnastics, whose president resigned in March because of how the organization responded to sexual complaints against coaches.Barcelona said its board had approved a development plan to have a team in the National Women’s Soccer League. Barcelona said it wanted to field the team in 2018. It was not clear whether Barcelona would acquire an existing team or seek an expansion team.The Australian rider Caleb Ewan won the seventh stage of the Giro d’Italia in a sprint finish while Bob Jungels held on to the pink jersey. For his first career win in the Giro, Ewan finished half a wheel ahead of the Colombian rider Fernando Gaviria. Sam Bennett of Ireland crossed third, while the sprinting standout Andre Greipel was fourth after the mainly flat but lengthy 139-mile route from Castrovillari to Alberobello.Doug DeCinces, a former third baseman for the Orioles and the Angels, has been convicted on 13 counts in a federal insider-trading case in Santa Ana, Calif. Prosecutors said DeCinces, 66, received advance warning of a merger from the chief executive of a medical device company.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingTexas lawmakers are considering a bill that could prevent a transgender high school wrestler the chance to defend his girls’ state championship next year.The wrestler, Mack Beggs, won a state championship in the classification for the state’s largest schools in February. But a proposal that has already passed the state Senate would allow the University Interscholastic League, the state’s governing body for public high school sports, to disqualify an athlete who is undergoing hormone therapy.Beggs, who had a 56-0 record en route to the title, drew complaints that his steroid therapy treatment had given him an unfair advantage against girls who risked injury just by getting on the mat with him.The proposal would require transgender students like Beggs to turn over medical information to the interscholastic league, which could prevent an athlete from competing if the safety or fairness of the competition would be “substantially affected by the student’s steroid use.”Texas requires transgender athletes to compete in the gender listed on their birth certificates. That meant Beggs had to wrestle against girls against his wishes. The proposed bill would not change that rule.Washington Capitals forward Alex Ovechkin finished the playoffs with a lower-body injury that required pain-numbing injections, the Russian Hockey Federation said.The federation said that the injury would prevent Ovechkin from playing in the International Ice Hockey Federation world championship.Ovechkin did not miss a game during the playoffs, but he was moved to the third line midway through the Capitals’ second-round series against the Pittsburgh Penguins, who eliminated the Capitals in Game 7 on Wednesday.In Group B, the defending champion Canada rallied to beat France, 3-2, in Paris to remain undefeated and atop the group with 12 points. Also in Group B, the Czech Republic beat Norway, 1-0, in Paris on an overtime goal by Jan Kovar off an assist by Boston Bruins winger David Pastrnak.Jason Vargas, the owner of the best earned run average in the major leagues, went seven scoreless innings and the Kansas City Royals beat the host Tampa Bay Rays, 6-0.Vargas (5-1) allowed dropped his E.R.A. from 1.19 to 1.01.Salvador Perez had a two-run double during a five-run eighth inning for the Royals, who won three of four against the Rays. Tampa Bay’s Jake Odorizzi (2-2) gave up one run and four hits in six innings.It was Betts’s fifth homer and his third in four games, and it helped Boston get one win in the three-game series.The three defendants were given sentences of between eight and 10 years for actions that began in 2015 with the help of a contact in the Dominican Republic, according to a report in the provincial newspaper Escambray.The Cuban government has been seeking an accord with Major League Baseball to regularize transfers of Cuban players. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)Cleveland Browns receiver Josh Gordon was denied reinstatement by the N.F.L. on Thursday and must reapply in the fall, according to multiple news media reports.Gordon is serving the latest in a series of suspensions for violating the league’s substance-abuse policy. He was also suspended for 10 games in 2014 and all of 2015.Gordon, 26, led the N.F.L. with 1,646 receiving yards in 2013, but he has played in just five games since.The suit filed Wednesday said Sharpe knocked Dante R. Satterfield unconscious last month after a conversation about the Titans’ decision to draft receiver Corey Davis in the first round. The lawsuit said Tretola was a lookout.Sharpe’s agent, Blaine Roche, told The Tennessean that the claims were ridiculous.The English club Manchester United and Amsterdam’s Ajax each backed into the Europa League final with so-so semifinal second legs.Manchester United conceded a late goal in a 1-1 draw against visiting Celta Vigo and advanced, 2-1, on aggregate.Ajax withstood a blistering comeback from host Lyon, which won the match, 3-1, but could not overcome the 4-1 advantage Ajax had built in the first leg.The Europa League final is May 24 in Stockholm.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byJon Jones, the Ultimate Fighting Championship’s light-heavyweight champion and perhaps the top pound-for-pound fighter in mixed martial arts, is once again facing the prospect of his career being derailed by a positive drug test. If the test result, announced late Tuesday, is substantiated, he might not return to the octagon for a long time — if ever.Jones, 30, can ask for his “B” sample to be tested; he can also appeal any Usada decision.If Jones’s latest positive test is confirmed, he will probably be stripped of his belt and, as a second-time offender, he will face up to a four-year suspension.At a news conference at the U.F.C.’s primary training center in Las Vegas, the organization’s president, Dana White, called the news “unbelievable.”If Jones is suspended for two to three years, White said, “it might be the end of his career. So to talk about his legacy — it’s probably the end of his career.”Jones first won the U.F.C.’s light-heavyweight championship in 2011. He successfully defended his belt eight times — the last of those fights was against Cormier in 2015. Four months later, the U.F.C. stripped Jones of his title after he was arrested in a hit-and-run accident and charged with a felony. He later pleaded guilty and was sentenced to probation.Jones then won the interim light-heavyweight championship, and a rematch against Cormier was scheduled for U.F.C. 200 in July 2016. The bout was canceled after Usada announced a potential doping violation.Jones tested positive for banned substances clomiphene and letrozole and was suspended for a year. Users of anabolic steroids sometimes take both drugs as part of a doping cycle. Jones appealed his suspension, blaming the positive test on a male-enhancement pill he took, but an independent arbitration panel upheld the suspension.Jones defeated Cormier at U.F.C. 214 in Anaheim, Calif., last month, in a third-round knockout. Jones knocked Cormier to the ground with a kick to the head, and he landed a number of punches before the fight was stopped.Before that fight, Jones mocked Cormier on social media about previous steroid allegations, writing in one message, “Daniel says the only reason I defeated him the first time is because I must have been on steroids, wonder what his excuse will be this time.”The California State Athletic Commission, which sanctioned the fight, also has jurisdiction over the matter. In a statement, Andy Foster, the commission’s chief executive, said it “takes these matters very seriously and will take any appropriate actions necessary after a thorough review of the situation.”Jones “is entitled to due process,” he added.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byRussian ballet dancers, Cuban baseball players and Chinese political dissidents. These are the kind of people fleeing persecution in their homelands who typically won asylum in the United States over the years.In many cases, they were in the country for a theatrical performance, a conference or a sports tournament, then sought refuge. Think Martina Navratilova, the Czech tennis player, who defected during the 1975 U.S. Open.Over the past five years, though, the number of asylum applications has skyrocketed. Civil wars in Africa, gang violence in Central America and government crackdowns in China have contributed to a backlog of hundreds of thousands of cases and processing times of up to six years. This presents a range of challenges to U.S. authorities, who are required under international law to give all of the cases careful consideration.Here’s a look at how we got here, and what America’s legal obligations are.The goal is to provide a safe haven for those who can prove they are fleeing persecution in their homeland.There are two ways people can win protection and the right to live permanently in the United States. In both cases they must prove the same well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.People who apply and are selected overseas eventually enter the United States as refugees.Many of them, hundreds of thousands, remain parked in camps as the refugee application process unfolds, typically over several years. That process involves several interviews with United Nations and American officials. The United States also conducts several layers of security screening.People already on United States soil apply for asylum.Alexander Godunov, a principal dancer with the renowned Bolshoi Ballet, was granted asylum in the United States in 1979. He was the first of several dancers to defect from the Bolshoi during that year’s tour in the United States. He requested asylum in New York City and received it immediately. Ms. Navratilova received asylum in October 1975, a month after filing for it.During the 1980s, civil war in El Salvador displaced several hundred thousand people. Tens of thousands flocked to the United States and applied for political asylum.Nowadays, the process of applying for asylum often takes years to complete, from start to finish. It involves interviews with United States immigration officials and often with immigration judges.Whether people entered the country legally or not, they are eligible to apply for asylum.The world is suffering the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are now a staggering number of refugees, asylum-seekers and displaced people — about 50 million.Violence around the globe is pushing desperate people to seek safety across international borders. People from the Middle East and Africa are taking rickety boats and making treacherous treks to reach Europe. They are less likely to show up at the southwest border of the United States than people from Latin America who are, relatively speaking, nearby and can come over land.In recent years, violence in Central America — it has some of the highest murder rates in the world — has prompted tens of thousands of people since 2014 to make the perilous journey to the United States.The migrants either turn themselves in at the border to American authorities or sneak into the country illegally. Regardless, they then declare that they are seeking asylum.Before 2011, only 1 percent of all arriving foreigners requested asylum. Today, one out of 10 apply, according to government officials.Jeff Sessions, the United States Attorney General, called the caravan now awaiting processing at the San Ysidro port of entry a “deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system.”Indeed, there are signs that the administration is seeking to disqualify certain applicants, such as victims of domestic violence, who have sometimes won asylum. Recently, Mr. Sessions suggested they should not be eligible.Yet the law does require authorities to accept and consider their petitions.Once they are processed at the port of entry, they are likely to be transferred to a detention facility where they must pass the first step in the asylum process, a “credible-fear” interview with an officer of the United States Immigration and Citizenship Services.The number of credible-fear interviews conducted by the federal agency has soared from 5,000 in 2007 to 80,000 last year.More than three quarters of those interviewed pass that screening and are referred to an immigration judge for hearings that may span months or longer. (Those who fail the interview can be deported immediately.)Asylum applicants awaiting a hearing before a judge either remain in detention or are released wearing a tracking device, such as an ankle monitor, with a date to appear in court.Many Central Americans stay with friends and relatives who already live in the United States. Once 180 days have passed after filing of their application, they are eligible to work in the United States. Their children attend public schools.Because some migrants in the past have skipped their court hearings, Mr. Trump has criticized the practice of releasing migrants, describing it as “catch and release.” In recent months, his administration has ordered border officers to, when possible, keep these migrants in detention, rather than release them.“While these asylum seekers are, on paper, eligible for consideration for release on parole, in reality ICE holds them in detention for long periods of time,” said Eleanor Acer, director of refugee protection for Human Rights First.United States officials say the administration is trying to figure out how to deal with the surge in asylum applications in a manner that is consistent with its international obligations.Part of the problem is that immigration courts are clogged, and not just with asylum cases.Central Americans who apply for asylum often have been threatened with death or suffered attacks at the hands of gangs. Often mothers flee to protect their children from recruitment.“We have seen firsthand the extraordinarily violent conditions in the Northern Triangle of Central America that forces families and children to flee their homes in search of urgently needed safety in the U.S.,” said Jennifer Sime, senior vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee.“Those who qualify and are fleeing violence, who have no other route to protection, should be granted safety and asylum,” she said.Immigrant advocates say their circumstances are akin to those faced by people escaping war in Syria or Somalia. However, it is more difficult for Central Americans to win their cases.“A huge percentage of these people get deported,” said Marty Rosenbluth, an immigration attorney. “It’s a really difficult struggle to win asylum.”Mr. Rosenbluth said that all of his asylum cases based on gang violence have failed because his clients could not establish that they fit into a social group suffering particular persecution to qualify.In some cases, judges have found that applicants fabricated or exaggerated their claims, though that is not usually the case.Immigration court records show that more asylum cases were denied over the previous five years than have been granted. In fiscal year 2016, 62 percent of asylum cases were denied, compared with 44.5 percent five years earlier. Among Mexicans and Central Americans, the approval rate is substantially lower.Simply wanting a better life does not meet the international criteria to qualify for asylum. But there are people who apply anyway because it gives them some benefits, albeit temporarily, even if they ultimately lose their case.Since the election of Mr. Trump, undocumented immigrants who have lived in the country for many years and fear deportation have been applying for asylum, knowing that they are unlikely to win, but hoping to remain in the country legally for a time.While their application crawls through the courts, they can obtain work permits and driver’s licenses.The administration, which has taken a hard-line on immigration, has said that it is seeking to expedite asylum cases and crack down on abuse.“There is a significant increase in terms of individuals seeking asylum,” said Jennifer Higgins, an associate director at United States Immigration and Citizenship Services who handles refugee and asylum issues. “Our goal is to make sure we have a fair and efficient asylum system. Right now we have individuals exploiting it. That means legitimate applicants will suffer.”The government has also said that it will prosecute those who break immigration law.In the case of the caravan, critics say that it would be a violation of international law to conduct speedy hearings for the caravan members at the expense of a full hearing of their claims.“The Trump administration has made clear that asylum seekers associated with the caravan will be subjected to detention, criminal prosecutions, and rushed proceedings, in essence punishing them for seeking refugee protection,” said Ms. Acer.But Ms. Higgins said officials are assigning staff and officers to help house and process all those admitted for hearings, wherever they end up.Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBut who wants to wait? Less than 24 hours after the first round was completed, everyone with a keyboard and an opinion was already grading the picks, sometimes pretty harshly.AdvertisementAdvertisementOn the other hand ...There was dismay that the Bears had sent picks to the San Francisco 49ers just to move up one notch in the draft. There was puzzlement over why the team had just paid Mike Glennon a lot of money to be its quarterback. There was concern over Trubisky’s brief career — just one full season — as a starter in college.There was one exception. Dieter Kurtenbach of Fox rated the pick an A-minus. Combined with the less positive grades, the G.P.A. is 1.45. Now Trubisky has to prove almost everyone wrong.Now here was a pick everyone could get behind. Four A-pluses and two A’s for the choice of the defensive lineman from Stanford. Average: 4.20, the highest of the round. “It’s an easy pick and the right one,” Fox said.Several graders gave bonus points to the 49ers for fleecing the Bears out of those extra picks.Hoffman in The Times pointed out: “He will likely be asked to play tackle in the N.F.L., which may require adding some bulk to his athletic frame.”Sometimes the consensus is good. Sometimes it’s bad. Sometimes there is no consensus.Most graders felt that Fournette of L.S.U. was the best running back available, and maybe the best player. Hoffman wrote, “He is a throwback to the power runners of yesteryear.”AdvertisementBut do you really take an old-school running back this high? And is any Jags running back going to succeed with the team’s poor offensive line?Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The grades for the pick ranged from A-minus to D, with an average of 2.72.The wide receiver from Western Michigan was greeted with a respectful, if not gushing, thumbs up. “The most pro-ready receiver in this class,” Sports Illustrated said. But some felt the Tennessee Titans had more pressing needs. Grade average: 2.90.The biggest cheers of the rest of the first round went to these four selections:Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesSometime around the third inning Friday evening, as we sat in our upper-deck aerie and watched the Yankees battle the Red Sox, my son Nick and I gestured at the weirdly placid crowd and exchanged shrugs of confusion.Once upon a donnybrook, to attend a Red Sox clash with the Yankees was like getting an engraved invitation to watch Visigoths trade ax blows with the legions of imperial Rome.This night, we heard no frenzied screams or vulgar chants demanding that Red Sox players commit physically impossible acts. It was as menacing as an accountants’ convention.We rode the B subway line here as National League infiltrators, hapless Mets fans in search of meaningful late-season baseball. We intended to root for the Red Sox, operating on the age-old and mindless theory that the enemy of our enemy was our friend. As we waded through the endless lines outside (security at Yankee Stadium is Department of Homeland Security cubed, a maze of questionable barriers), police officers in full body armor walked past.I gave Nick a knowing look. This is why I left my father’s old Boston Braves cap at home, and why it was just as well that my son had not donned his Pedro Martinez jersey. Red Sox-Yankees offers a demented land.Or not.For years, I regaled Nick and his brother Aidan with tales of the Red Sox and Yankees’ tribal wars, which lasted from the 1970s to the early years of this century. To get the flavor, here is Alan Richman, a Boston Globe columnist writing of Yankee fans, circa 1978:“Not since the Panzer Corps reunions were declared illegal have so many misanthropes, malcontents and just plain miserable people gathered to have a good time.”And here was the great New York columnist Larry Merchant on the mood at Yankee Stadium awaiting the arrival of those “doughty” Red Sox (Bostonians, for affectations known only to themselves, adore words with Olde English roots). The crowd at the Stadium, he wrote, “was magnificently hostile, a collision of separate needs and collective memory.”The Yankees’ owner then, George Steinbrenner, with his ersatz Vince Lombardi imitations, made a delicious heavy. Explaining why he might fire his manager, Billy Martin, for the sin of losing to the Red Sox, Steinbrenner explained, “He’s not going to push me to the wall without getting thrown over it.”This was a man I could root against joyfully.As my Mets descended into a bottomless chasm of losing in the 1970s and early 1980s, my buddies Peter Kurz and Fred Cooper and I trooped up to Yankee Stadium like desert wayfarers in search of an oasis. We rooted loudly for the Red Sox: Carl Yastrzemski and Jim Rice and Rick Burleson and George Scott, who was known as Boomer and was a big slugger and a balletic defender with the glove he called Black Beauty.Life in the Yankee Stadium upper deck was bracingly Darwinian — flat beer, loose joints and anything goes. We survived with rigorous adherence to behavioral rites: You befriended the natives, wrapped your Yankee insults in a Bubble Wrap of smiles and never narrowed your eyes when the natives heaped insults on you. If the Red Sox held the lead after five or six innings, self-preservation dictated shutting up and hunkering down. By the eighth or ninth inning, Yankee Stadium became an outtake from “The Warriors” — the Rogues against the Riffs.Punches and beers flew. One impossibly humid night, I watched fans (it would be redundant to call them drunks) in the upper deck hurling beers down onto the bleachers. The bleacher inhabitants, stripped to their waists, picked up baseballs and hurled them back in futile loops at the upper deck. I believe they were all Yankee fans. It was like a 16th-century religious war, schismatics fighting over causes too obscure for an outsider to understand.In truth, I sort of liked those old Yankees, Ron Guidry and Chris Chambliss and Willie Randolph. When I worked as a doorman on the East Side, a tenant told me that Reggie Jackson had parked his Mercedes on Second Avenue. I ran down there to find Jackson, the great egocentric slugger, leaning against the hood and holding court.Truth compels me to acknowledge that the Yankees of today are not so easy to root against.Aaron Judge, going through a Titanic readjustment to the American League pitchers’ collective adjustment to him, is a fine young slugger. Luis Severino is a former whippet who appears to be on a path toward becoming a fine pitcher. The general manager, Brian Cashman, has revamped this Yankee team with the dispatch of a good pit man at the Indianapolis 500.Didi Gregorius is a sweet fielder and hitter with a great baseball name.Can I stop now?Any more Yankee compliments and I am going to break out in hives. I hail from a National League family — my parents were Giants fans before that team departed for California. They signed on with the Mets in 1962 and never let go. My sons will be in a state of high agitation these next few nights as the Mets face off against the Yankees in a four-game, home-and-home series that begins on Monday.The cooling of the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry requires anthropological exploration.Some years back, the Yankees inexplicably tore down their magnificent old stadium and put up a faceless corporate facsimile. You enter through a dull concourse; the prevailing aesthetic is Death Star. (I overstate? The scoreboard Friday evening introduced a Yankee with an image of Darth Vader and the sound of heavy breathing.) Nosebleed tickets run close to $100, with various inane fees totaled up.So the hoi polloi of which I was a proud tribesman have trouble digging up scratch for admittance.The upside is that neither of us had been forced to take a beer bath.We counted our luck and walked to the elevated subway.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAVONDALE, La. — On April 19, 2016, Andy Pazder was sipping a cup of coffee, reading the sports page and soaking in the ocean view just a few miles from PGA Tour headquarters in Florida when the idea struck him.He wanted to shake up the format of the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, a tour staple since 1938. In that moment of inspiration, Pazder, the tour’s chief tournaments and competitions officer, thought about switching the Classic from a traditional stroke-play event to a two-man team event.He fired off a text at 6:12 a.m. explaining his idea to Jay Monahan, who in November would be promoted to tour commissioner. Then he looked up the website of the title sponsor, Zurich Insurance Group, which listed teamwork among the company’s core values.“It was like a gift,” Pazder said.Pazder’s idea required the approval of the title sponsor and of the tour’s board of directors, and it received universal support. During the initial discussion with the tour’s 16-member Player Advisory Council, Pazder said, “there were guys looking to pair up on the spot.”AdvertisementWith the new format, the Zurich Classic seems to have been jolted by enthusiasm.Six of the top 10 players in the rankings and 13 of the top 25 signed up to play this week. During the post-Masters hangover the past two weeks, none of the players then in the top 15 competed in the RBC Heritage, and only one played in the Texas Open.AdvertisementThe Zurich Classic will feature 80 two-man teams, with those posting the top 35 cumulative scores (and ties) playing through the weekend. Alternate-shot play will be used in the first and third rounds, and best-ball in the second and fourth, with only the lowest score posted by a team member on each hole applied to the cumulative total. The closest the tour has previously come to using a foursome format in an official event was at the 1934 Pinehurst Pro-Pro held at Pinehurst’s No. 2.Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Each player on the winning team will get credit for a victory for the first time since Vance Heafner and Mike Holland combined to win the Walt Disney World National Team Championship in 1981. The winning team will be awarded a two-year tour exemption, 400 FedEx Cup points and invitations to the Players Championship next month, the P.G.A. Championship in August and the Tournament of Champions in January. But the winning tandem will not earn Masters berths or any ranking points.“We have said for some time that golf needs to modernize, and introducing innovative new formats is a major part of achieving that aim,” Pelley said in a statement this year. “We are in the entertainment content business with golf as our platform, and GolfSixes is the perfect illustration of that.”Team golf is not a novel concept. Among other events, the biennial Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup competitions use team play, as does the PGA Tour Champions Legends of Golf, which was held for the 39th time last week. All told, the tour has held 61 previous official team events, using various formats.The tour also recognizes two nontraditional events, the World Golf Championships match-play tournament and the Barracuda Championship, which uses a modified Stableford format, allocating points based on the number of strokes taken at each hole, with the goal of achieving the highest overall score.Should there be more breaks with tradition? It depends whom you ask. Jordan Spieth campaigned for a couple of more breaks from the monotony of 72-hole stroke play, while Justin Rose supported the philosophy of “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”Advertisement“I’ve always believed that 72-hole stroke play is the purest form of the game, and that’s how you often get the best champion and the truest winner,” Rose said. “That should be protected, I think, for the most part.“There were gaps on the European Tour schedule where there were opportunities to do something different and strengthen weaker tournaments by creating more fun and excitement around them. I think they’ve done a great job of identifying those tournaments. But they’re not messing with the strong tournaments on the European Tour.”This week, Spieth will play with his fellow Texan Ryan Palmer after losing a golf bet in November with Palmer’s caddie, James Edmondson, a former college golfer. There also are pairings of brothers (Brooks and Chase Koepka), Ryder Cup teammates (Rose and Henrik Stenson) and college teammates (the local favorites John Peterson and Andrew Loupe from Louisiana State, Georgia’s Harris English and Hudson Swafford and Georgia Tech’s Ollie Schniederjans and Richy Werenski, to name a few). The highest-profile team is Jason Day and Rickie Fowler.For some, securing a partner has been akin to finding a prom date. Asked to explain in up to three words why he had chosen Luke Donald as his partner, Jamie Lovemark counted on his hand while saying, “Des-per-ation.”Bubba Watson, who is playing with J. B. Holmes, said: “It really doesn’t matter how they partner up. They’re going to be buddies for a couple days, and you’re going to see a lot of smiles, a lot of laughing and a lot of enjoyment of the game of golf.”The NBC golf analyst Peter Jacobsen played on two Ryder Cup teams for the United States and was Arnold Palmer’s partner as host of the Fred Meyer Challenge, an unofficial team event held from 1986 to 2002. Jacobsen described the team format as twice the pleasure, but also twice the pain.“It’s so uplifting when you make a birdie for your partner,” he said, “but also agonizing when you miss a putt that costs you and your partner a hole.”The new team format brings a different strategy and intrigue to the decision-making process, which explains why so many players are talking about the importance of team chemistry and complementing each other’s game. That could be either a blessing or a burden for the Koepkas.“We could kill each other on the second hole,” Brooks Koepka said, “or it could be awesome.”An earlier version of the headline with this article misstated part of the name of this week’s PGA Tour event. It is the Zurich Classic, not the Zurich Open.Go to Home Page »Advertisement“There is one thing about this case that should be made crystal-clear at the outset,” the suit maintains. “The violence in Charlottesville was no accident.”AdvertisementThe nine named plaintiffs — students, clergy members and local residents who say they were hurt in Charlottesville — have accused the event’s leaders of plotting to deprive them of their civil rights by encouraging their followers to arm themselves and partake in violence. (Heather Heyer’s family is not among the plaintiffs.)AdvertisementThe defendants — an array of neo-Nazis, white identitarians and old-line pro-Confederates — have ridiculed the charges as an act of “lawfare” maliciously intended to silence them and destroy them financially.“The goal here is to break us and keep us from taking to the streets,” said Jeff Schoep, the leader of the National Socialist Movement. “That should concern all Americans, no matter where you stand on the political spectrum.”As the case moves forward, it is likely to explore the limits of the First Amendment’s broad free-speech provisions and the principle that incitements to violence are not protected. Discovery in the case may also expose the links between the far-right groups and their often opaque sources of financing.“I thought you could bring a suit under that same strategy,” Ms. Kaplan said, “against the groups in Charlottesville.”Most of the defendants are being represented by two less prominent lawyers: James Kolenich, who is based in Cincinnati, and Elmer Woodard, who works in the Virginia countryside about two hours south of Charlottesville.AdvertisementBefore the current case, Mr. Kolenich had never represented a member of the alt-right, a far-right fringe movement that embraces white nationalism and is often anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic and anti-women.In order to prove that a conspiracy existed, the plaintiffs’ lawyers will have to show that the leaders of the rally worked together in planning and encouraging racially motivated violence. Under the law, if a conspiracy is eventually established, all of its participants can be held accountable for the actions of its separate members.Ms. Kaplan called those leaked communications “a lawyer’s gift,” and she used them in drafting her complaint. They seemed to show a Discord channel for the rally filled with calls for violence.“I’m ready to crack skulls,” one person wrote. Others said they planned to go to Charlottesville with wrenches, pipes and wooden sticks. One man claimed he was going with a cache of rifles that “will shoot clean through a crowd at least four deep.” There were also plans to shuttle people to the rally grounds in what was called a “Hate Van.”AdvertisementOne of the defendants, Michael Peinovich, the co-host of a podcast called “The Daily Shoah,” downplayed the Discord messages as “idle chitchat” in his motion to dismiss. “Edgy humor and memes are part of Internet subculture,” Mr. Peinovich wrote, “and while some may not understand them, and some may find them offensive, the sharing of such jokes and memes cannot credibly be seen as evidence of a conspiracy to commit violence.”Another defendant, Richard B. Spencer, one of the country’s most prominent white supremacists, wrote in his dismissal motion that “harsh and bold words, as well as scuffles, are simply a reality of political protests.”Mr. Spencer, who is representing himself after several lawyers refused to take him as client, went on to say: “Free societies, not only in the United States, but around the world, accept this as a cost of free assembly and maintaining a vibrant political culture.”The chief planner of the Charlottesville event, Jason Kessler, wrote in an email this month that even though he was initially concerned about the lawsuit, he now considers it an opportunity to “go on offense.” Mr. Kessler said he plans to use the case to attack the “hoax narrative” that the right-wing marchers were responsible for the violence.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“After all the lies about the event are laid out before the public and they realize how badly some very powerful people wanted to shut down our free speech rally,” he wrote, “I think the public will be hungrier than ever to hear what we actually went there to say.”In a different political climate, Mr. Mehlhorn said, the Justice Department’s civil rights division might have investigated and sued the planners of the Charlottesville protest.AdvertisementBut, he added, “These days, we do not expect the Justice Department or government lawyers to pursue any of these actions.”Some experts on far-right extremism question whether the lawsuit will reveal anything beyond what is already known about the far-right groups, that they are hardly rich and tend to crowdsource what money they get.Professor Rosenthal said that rather than ruin the far-right groups, the lawsuit may just push them off the streets and back on to the internet, where they existed quietly for years.“Because the world is cyber,” he said, “it’s tough to put people entirely out of business.”See More »Go to Home Page »