AdvertisementSupported bySports BriefingKetel Marte and Brandon Drury homered in a three-run sixth inning to bolster a strong outing by Zack Godley, and the Arizona Diamondbacks extended their winning streak to 10 games with a 5-1 victory on Sunday over the Colorado Rockies in Denver.The streak is the Diamondbacks’ longest since they captured a franchise-best 12 straight in 2003.Godley (7-7) allowed three hits, walked six and struck out seven over six innings to help Arizona sweep a three-game series from the Rockies. The Diamondbacks increased their lead over Colorado for the top National League wild-card spot to six and a half games. The slumping Rockies’ lead over Milwaukee for the second wild card was trimmed to just a half-game.The P.G.A. champion Justin Thomas made three long birdies on a long, wet TPC Boston course in Norton, Mass., for a tournament-best 63, giving him a share of the lead with Marc Leishman going into a Labor Day finish in the Dell Technologies Championship.Leishman also played a bogey-free round and had three straight birdies on the back nine for a 65.They were at 12-under-par 201 with no room for error on a leaderboard that was packed with some of golf’s best players.Paul Casey, who played in the final group last year at TPC Boston, shot a 67 and was one shot behind. Jordan Spieth birdied his final two holes and was among those two shots back. Dustin Johnson, who birdied four of his final five holes, was three behind.Lewis’s $195,000 in winnings will go to relief efforts, and her sponsor, KPMG, pledged to match the donation.Lewis, 32, won her 12th L.P.G.A. Tour title and her first since June 2014, ending a frustrating stretch that included 12 runner-up finishes. She closed with a three-under 69 to hold off In Gee Chun by a stroke at Columbia Edgewater.Tiny Luxembourg held host France to a shocking 0-0 draw in Toulouse in Group A World Cup qualifying.The point kept France on top of the group, 1 point ahead of Sweden, which thrashed host Belarus, 4-0, in Borisov. The Netherlands was in third after defeating Bulgaria, 3-1, in Amsterdam, preserving faint Dutch hopes of qualifying for Russia.In Group H, Romelu Lukaku gave Belgium a 2-1 win over host Greece in Piraeus and secured his team a place in Russia. Belgium is unbeaten in qualifying. Two goals from Edin Dzeko helped Bosnia and Herzegovina beat Gibraltar, 4-0, in Faro, Portugal, to leapfrog Greece into second place.In Group B, Switzerland extended its perfect World Cup qualifying record by defeating host Latvia, 3-0, in Riga for an eighth straight victory, while Cristiano Ronaldo’s Portugal edged Hungary, 1-0, in Budapest to stay close at the top of the group. Earlier, the Faeroe Islands defeated visiting Andorra, 1-0, in Torshavn for its second win, securing its best ever qualifying campaign.Cam Newton is no longer the only quarterback in the family who has led a team to an improbable win.His younger brother Caylin made his college debut Saturday, leading Howard University to one of the biggest upsets in the sport’s history, a 43-40 victory at Nevada-Las Vegas. The Bison, a Football Championship Subdivision program, were 45-point underdogs against the Rebels.Newton ran for 190 yards and two touchdowns and passed for 140 yards with a touchdown and an interception.Members of unions representing Cleveland police officers and paramedics said they would not hold a large United States flag during ceremonies before Sunday’s Cleveland Browns season opener after a group of Browns players knelt during the national anthem before a preseason game last month.Nearly a dozen Browns players knelt in a circle and prayed silently during the anthem before a preseason home game Aug. 21 against the Giants. A smaller group of players placed hands on the shoulders of their kneeling teammates.The Jets claimed Tye, a former Giants tight end, off waivers a day after N.F.L. teams trimmed their rosters from 90 to 53 players.The team also claimed wide receivers Damore’ea Stringfellow and Kalif Raymond and linebacker Edmond Robinson. It released linebacker Bruce Carter and waived linebacker Freddie Bishop, running back Marcus Murphy and tight end Jason Vander Laan.Lewis Hamilton won the Italian Grand Prix in Monza virtually unchallenged from pole position and moved ahead of Sebastian Vettel to take the lead in the drivers’ standings. Hamilton finished nearly five seconds ahead of his Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas. Hamilton has 238 points, 3 more than Ferrari’s Vettel, with seven races remaining.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS