AdvertisementSupported byForward Kylian Mbappe’s expected move to Paris St.-Germain finally went through Thursday evening, as Monaco loaned him until the end of the season along with an option to make the move permanent. No financial details were given by P.S.G. in its statement, but the permanent deal would be from 2018 to 2022.Although no transfer fee has been given by either French club, it was widely reported that P.S.G. will pay an astonishing 180 million euros ($216 million) for Mbappe, an 18-year-old who burst onto the scene last season.“It’s with great joy and pride that I’m joining Paris St.-Germain,” Mbappe said in a statement. “For all young people who grew up in the Paris region, it’s often a dream to be able to wear the red and blue shirt.”It means that P.S.G. now has unprecedented status as effectively owning the world’s two most expensive players, with the Brazilian star Neymar bought for a world-record 222 million euros ($262 million).Chelsea did manage to sign midfielder Danny Drinkwater from 2016 champion Leicester for a reported 35 million pounds ($45 million) and defender Davide Zappacosta from the Italian club Torino. Barkley’s rejection stunned Chelsea after midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain opted to leave Arsenal for Liverpool and forward Fernando Llorente favored a move to Tottenham from Swansea.Aldrick Rosas hit a 48-yard field goal as time expired, giving the Giants a 40-38 victory over the New England Patriots in the final exhibition game for both teams in Foxborough, Mass.The Giants scored 34 points in the first half, but the Patriots outscored them by 24-3 over the final 29 minutes before Rosas’ field goal. It helped salvage a night in which Geno Smith and Josh Johnson each had touchdown passes, and the Giants’ defense returned an interception for a touchdown.The third-stringer Jacoby Brissett threw for 341 yards and four touchdowns, and ran for another to nearly lead the Super Bowl champions back from a 20-point halftime deficit. Stephen Gostkowski hit a 55-yard go-ahead field goal with 44 seconds remaining.McCown took a shot to his chest from Eagles linebacker Joe Walker after completing a 20-yard pass to Austin Seferian-Jenkins with 7 minutes 13 seconds left in the opening quarter. He was down on a knee for a few moments before jogging off the field and then going down to a knee again as trainers attended to him. He missed one play.Mason Rudolph threw for 303 yards and three touchdowns and ran for another score to help No. 10 Oklahoma State beat Tulsa, 59-24, in Stillwater, Okla.The Baltimore Orioles’ seven-game winning streak ended under a barrage of home runs by Kendrys Morales, who went deep three times and had a career-high seven R.B.I. to provide the visiting Toronto Blue Jays with an 11-8 victory.Sacramento Kings forward Zach Randolph has been charged with misdemeanor marijuana possession and resisting arrest following an incident this month when a large gathering became unruly at a Los Angeles housing project, prosecutors said. Randolph, a two-time N.B.A. All-Star, had initially been arrested on suspicion of possessing marijuana with intent to sell — a felony — but Los Angeles city prosecutors instead charged Randolph with misdemeanor drug possession.In Gee Chun of South Korea shot a six-under 66 in the Cambia Portland Classic in Portland, Ore., to take a one-stroke lead over the two-time defending champion Brooke Henderson and five others.Chris Froome crashed twice as rivals reduced his Vuelta a España lead in Stage 12, which was won by the Lotto-Soudal rider Tomasz Marczynski. Vincenzo Nibali cut 20 seconds off Froome’s advantage and now trails by 59 seconds in second place.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS