AdvertisementSupported byTwo top U.S.A. Swimming officials, including one whose job was specifically to protect athletes, have resigned after a series of scathing reports alleging that the organization had ignored sexual abuse by coaches for years while athletes suffered.A statement and letter posted by U.S.A. Swimming described an apparent conflict of interest involving Ms. Woessner, who, until recently, had not disclosed that she had kissed a coach before later being asked to assist in an investigation into whether that coach had become romantically involved with a 21-year-old swimmer.The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not as clear, and U.S.A. Swimming did not say whether the two officials had been forced out or had resigned voluntarily.Ms. Woessner was among the officials accused in the Register report of choosing not to pursue sexual abuse cases against coaches even after being presented with direct complaints.In her resignation letter, Ms. Woessner acknowledged that in 2007, during her first stint working with U.S.A. Swimming — as a database coordinator — she “engaged in kissing on a single occasion” with Mr. Hutchison, who was then a coach.She left the organization later that year to pursue a master’s degree in social work, and then returned to U.S.A. Swimming in 2010, when she was named the organization’s athlete protection officer. In that role, Ms. Woessner wrote, she was asked to assist in an investigation into whether Mr. Hutchison was romantically involved with “a 21-year-old athlete member.” (U.S.A. Swimming has said it became aware of a rumored relationship between Mr. Hutchison and Ms. Kukors in 2010, when Ms. Kukors was 21.)But the statement added that “considering Woessner’s Safe Sport role,” she should have disclosed her interaction with Mr. Hutchison before taking part in the investigation into his behavior.Ms. Woessner did not immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on Friday night.Mr. Hogan, who served in his role at U.S.A. Swimming for 15 years, became romantically involved with Julie Ginden, one of his teenage swimmers in Atlanta, in the 1980s. They married when she was 20, and have since divorced.The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not clear. Efforts to reach Mr. Hogan on Friday night were unsuccessful.In an email sent on Monday to Mr. Hinchey, B. Robert Allard, a lawyer for Ms. Kukors, demanded that the U.S.A. Swimming chief fire Ms. Woessner and Mr. Hogan by Feb. 28.“If you fail to meet this demand, we will assume that you stand by these two people and back up everything that they said and did in the past,” Mr. Allard wrote in the email. “I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt. Now is the time to show your true colors.”Asked for comment late Friday, Isabelle McLemore, a spokeswoman for U.S.A. Swimming, said, “At this time our statements stand as our comments on these matters.”In his letter to members, Mr. Hinchey noted the “recent media coverage,” and emphasized that the organization “does not tolerate sexual abuse or misconduct.”“We will not shy away from acknowledging or supporting survivors of abuse, and we will strive to ensure that there is never a lapse of a support system again,” the statement said. “While we disagree on several of the reported statements and many of the conclusions in recent media reports, members were failed, and we are doing everything we can to make sure it never happens again.”Jacey Fortin and Karen Crouse contributed reporting and Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS