AdvertisementSupported byMARBLEHEAD, Mass. — When José Luis Ugarte, the oldest sailor to finish the Vendée Globe yacht race, finally arrived back on terra firma in 1993, he soberly pronounced the solo, round-the-world race “an inhuman event” that should be done no more than “once in a lifetime.”But here is Rich Wilson, back for more at age 66 and in position to break Ugarte’s age record by two years. After placing ninth in his first Vendée Globe in 2009, Wilson, an asthmatic American educator from this yachting hub near Boston, will again set sail alone from France on Sunday. Taking nearly three months to complete, the Vendée Globe remains a singular test of character that allows no stops or outside assistance and too few hours of sleep as the weeks and months pass by along with the swells and storms.“The last time, I slept two times in that race for four hours straight, and both were accidental,” Wilson said last week in a Skype interview from France. “They had a 120-decibel alarm clock on the boat, and I slept through that, and that sort of defines the fatigue.”A chain saw, by the way, typically registers 110 decibels, but there was more delight than dread in Wilson’s voice last week as he prepared to depart with the 28 other competitors from the Atlantic port of Les Sables d’Olonne.“The Vendée Globe,” Wilson declared, “is the greatest sailing race in the world.”There is certainly nothing nautical that rivals it in France, where the Vendée, a quadrennial event that began in 1989, remains a major cultural happening, one capable of inspiring Sunday sailors and lifelong landlubbers alike and of appealing to the adventurous and iconoclastic niches in the French psyche. Despite a growing international contingent, a Frenchman has won every edition of the race.The start is one of the great spectacles in sports, as each of the 60-foot yachts is towed out to sea through a narrow channel lined with hundreds of thousands of spectators. Then, quite abruptly — after the cheers and the commotion — there is solitude, or at least a modern approximation of it, with all the satellite phones and other means of communication now at offshore sailors’ disposal.“The first trans-Atlantic passage I did, our communication was through ham radio,” Wilson said. In that race, he said, communication with anyone involved muscling a simple antenna up the mast and hoping for the best.“The way it is now changes it, certainly, but I don’t think it’s a bad thing,” Wilson said. “I think you get to maybe tell the stories a little bit more immediately to whomever it is you are going to tell them to. And I think it allows other people to participate in your adventure.”This year, his website will be translated into English, French and two forms of Chinese.“With the partners we have, we certainly have the potential to reach two or three million students,” he said, up from about 250,000 for the last race, all of them in the United States.Wilson and Pettengill, then trying to break the San Francisco-to-Boston record in the 60-foot trimaran Great American, capsized on Thanksgiving Day in a ferocious storm with sea heights of 65 feet and winds of 85 knots. The crippled vessel was soon thrown upright, its mast broken. Wilson and Pettengill were rescued 17 hours later in the middle of the night, jumping onto a rope ladder lowered by the container ship’s crew.“Quite often those things end in tears afterward because you can’t get them on board because the conditions are too tough or they go in the water and you lose them,” Lister said in a telephone interview from Nelson, New Zealand. “To have even found them in the daylight would have been quite a feat. Finding them in the middle of the night was astounding.”Twenty-six years later, Wilson still gets emotional discussing the rescue, which has led to a deep and enduring connection with Lister. In 2010, Wilson flew to New Zealand to be a surprise guest at Lister’s retirement party.It has not been lost on Lister that his saving Wilson’s life has hardly kept Wilson from continuing to risk it at sea.“I must admit after he did the first Vendée Globe, I said, ‘Don’t try it again — you’re getting too old,’” Lister said. “But his fitness level is still as good as it was then.”With improvements in technology and safety in recent years, the Vendée Globe has become as much a sports event as an adventure. François Gabart, a cerebral and telegenic Frenchman, won the last race in a record 78 days 2 hours 16 minutes. That was 31 days faster than the first winner, Titouan Lamazou, in the 1989-90 race.No sailor has died during the Vendée since the Canadian Gerry Roufs was lost at sea in 1997, but it remains undeniably extreme.“You make a misstep, and the consequences can be dire,” Wilson said. “If something breaks, the loads on the boats are immense, and the systems are complex. There’s just an awful lot that can go wrong.”Wilson added: “The equipment might have gotten safer, but the ocean hasn’t. You are still out there in King Neptune’s domain, and King Neptune is decidedly the one in charge.”After his first Vendée, Wilson confessed that he seriously had no desire to go sailing again. He spent time with his mother, an intrepid soul in her own right who had lived in Alaska in the 1940s. But after Wilson attended the start of the 2012-13 race, he decided he would aim for 2016.In 2015, he resumed his fitness work with Marti Shea, an endurance athlete and leading cyclist based in Marblehead, who also helped him prepare for his first Vendée. She has focused on leg strength and balance because round-the-world sailors’ legs tend to atrophy during the long voyage. She also has designed agility exercises for Wilson in which he must climb over and under three-foot hurdles to mimic the cramped conditions on board during the race.“Compared to the normal person in the population, he’s really fit,” Shea said. “Compared to the other sailors, he definitely cannot be as strong as the younger guys, and he knows that. But that’s where his experience comes into play. Last time, he was not expected to come in ninth place. He had an old boat. But people kept dropping out, equipment breaking, and he kept making the right decisions.”Wilson’s performance in his last race has clearly given his generation ideas. Three other sailors over 60 are in this race: Enda O’Coineen, 61, of Ireland; the Vendée veteran Nandor Fa, 63, of Hungary; and Pieter Heerema, 65, of the Netherlands.Wilson will be the oldest ever to start the race. If he completes it, he will surpass Ugarte, who was 64 in 1993, as the oldest to finish. But this Vendée Globe also has the youngest competitor in the event’s history: the 23-year-old Swiss sailor Alan Roura, who has developed a bond with Wilson.“I told him that I’m three times as old as you are, but we have the same dream,” Wilson said. “So we’ve gotten to be pretty good friends with that concept. I don’t think you can go off on the Vendée Globe without knowing exactly why you’re out there and having a really good reason to be out there.”For Wilson, it is about testing his limits, but above all about teaching while testing his limits. In that sense, with the website and lesson plans in place, he is never sailing alone.“I know when things get really bad, particularly in the Southern Ocean, that the kids help bring me home,” Wilson said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS