AdvertisementAfter an almost flawless qualifying campaign, Iran will find it far tougher at the World Cup.Iran's route to the round of 16 from Group B could be blocked by defending European champion Portugal and 2010 World Cup winner Spain.But the Iberian teams have good reason to be wary. Iran was unbeaten in 10 qualifiers and did not concede a single goal in the first nine games. And the strongest backline in Asia was only breached by Syria once a place in Russia was already secure.Contesting back-to-back World Cups for the first time, Iran will be aiming for a first appearance in the knockout stage in its fifth attempt.Since the 2014 tournament, when Iran finished with one point, the team has evolved and coach Carlos Queiroz has more options in every position — with more than half of the squad gaining experience at overseas clubs.AdvertisementQueiroz has publicly reminded the Iranian federation of the need for perfection in the World Cup build-up, reflecting concerns about past preparations. While regional rival Saudi Arabia has secured friendlies with Germany and Italy, Iran warms up against Uzbekistan and Latvia.AdvertisementHere's a closer look at the Iran team:COACHQueiroz has now steered three teams through four World Cup qualification campaigns.The experienced tactician has been in charge of Iran since 2011 and has taken the team to new heights.On the field, he has produced a disciplined and well-organized team that has an attacking threat. That success means that his regular run-ins with the federation and club coaches in Iran are tolerated. Queiroz's status is enhanced by previous experience coaching Real Madrid and Portugal.GOALKEEPERSAlireza Beiranvand is likely to get the nod in Russia.At 6-foot-4 (1.95 meters), Beiranvand is physically commanding, a fine shot-stopper and known for his distribution, especially with his long throws.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Beiranvand has been in excellent form for Iranian club Persepolis. One potential issue is that understudies do not have much international experience.DEFENDERSThere are plenty of options in defense.The back four has been well-marshalled by veteran central defender Jalal Hosseini, but younger players including Rouzbeh Cheshmi are now getting a look in. Watch out for the speed of fullbacks Milad Mohammadi and Ramin Rezaeian.MIDFIELDERSEhsan Hajsafi, Masoud Shojaei and Ashkan Dejagah bring World Cup experience and scoring ability. Talented players such as Saeid Ezatolahi and Saman Ghoddos offer more energy.FORWARDSThe World Cup could be the stage for Alireza Jahanbakhsh to secure a big-money move from AZ Alkmaar after rising to the top of the Dutch scoring charts.Sardar Azmoun is already accustomed to the World Cup hosts after spending the last five years playing in Russia, impressing recently at Rostov and being linked with a move to a bigger league after the tournament.Karim Ansarifard and Mehdi Taremi are also a source of goals.GROUP GAMESIran opens on June 15 against Morocco before taking on Spain on June 20 and Portugal on June 25.Advertisement___More AP World Cup coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/WorldCupGo to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byMorocco's first World Cup victory in Russia could come off the field.On the eve of the tournament, Morocco is hoping to beat a North American bid for the right to stage the 2026 World Cup. Then it's the duty of the players to perform in Group B in the country's first trip to the World Cup in two decades.Qualification was secured by beating Ivory Coast in a winner-take-all encounter. Intriguingly, only one of the 11 players who started in Ivory Coast was born in Morocco. Lacking a superstar, Morocco often finds its best players in France, the Netherlands and Spain, where they parents emigrated to.Most of the squad wasn't born when Morocco became the first African team to win a group at the World Cup, finishing ahead of England, Poland and Portugal in 1986.Portugal, the reigning European champion, awaits Morocco again this time in Group B, in between games against Iran and 2010 World Cup winner Spain.Here's a closer look at the Morocco team:COACHHerve Renard is capable of pulling a team lacking out-and-out stars together to form a formidable unit.The 49-year-old Frenchman has had success with far more underrated squads than Morocco's. He led unheralded Zambia to the African title in 2012 and then led Ivory Coast to the continental title three years later.While there's no doubt Renard is a good tactician, he's better known for his passion and flamboyant antics on the sidelines. Watch out for a possible revival of one of his superstitions for major tournaments: the lucky shirt.At the African Cup of Nations six years ago with Zambia, Renard embraced a white shirt that he said gave his team luck and he wore it for every game the Zambians played on the way to the title.GOALKEEPERSSpanish-born Munir Mohamedi is likely to remain the No. 1 choice for the World Cup. That's the logical decision after he didn't concede a goal in six games in the final round of qualifying.Mohamedi plays in the Spanish second division for Numancia, while understudy Yassine Bounou plays in the top league with Girona. Bounou could have represented Canada after being born in Montreal.DEFENDERSThe entire team seems built around captain Mehdi Benatia, the Juventus center back who was born in France but with Moroccan heritage.Benatia has also played for Roma and Bayern Munich and brings experience of top-level European club football to the team.Romain Saiss, who has just led Wolverhampton Wanderers into the Premier League, partnered Benatia successfully during World Cup qualifying. Saiss can also be utilized as a defensive midfielder to provide an extra line of protection.The wing backs have generated much excitement in Morocco: 19-year-old Achraf Hakimi of Real Madrid on the right and 20-year-old Hamza Mendyl of Lille on the opposite flank.MIDFIELDERSMbark Boussoufa is the heartbeat of the midfield and has a claim alongside Benatia to be the team's most important player.Born in the Netherlands, Boussoufa has spent more than a decade in the team and has experience of conditions in Russia. He spent five years with Anzhi Makhachkala and Lokomotiv Moscow.Also expect Younes Belhanda to play a key role in a five-man midfield with the pacey Nordin Amrabat and Hakim Ziyech operating as wingers.FORWARDSWith five in midfield, Khalid Boutaib might be the lone striker on the team sheet, although that didn't bother him in the decisive round of qualifying with four goals in six games.Renard could be tempted, however, to play two up front and give the 24-year-old forward Ayoub el-Kaabi a chance after he scored an eye-opening nine goals in six games in his first international tournament, albeit the lower-level African Nations Championship in January and February.GROUP GAMESAfter opening on June 15 against Iran, Morocco will take on its closest northerly neighbors, Portugal, on June 20. The team will then face Spain on June 25.___More AP World Cup coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/WorldCupAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementPortugal has received assistance from Real Madrid in its quest for a first World Cup title, even though it plays Spain in the opening game.By allowing Cristiano Ronaldo to sit out less meaningful matches, Madrid's management of the 33-year-old forward in the twilight of his career means he should not be worn out in Russia.The five-time world player of the year is leading a squad that broke through to win its first major title at the 2016 European Championship."Ronaldo is crucial," Portugal coach Fernando Santos said, "but we know that to win we need to play well as a team."AdvertisementSantos accepts that Portugal is not among the leading contenders for the title in Russia, even though there's a familiar look about the squad. From the team that started in the final against France two years ago, only Nani and Renato Sanches were not called up for the recent friendlies.AdvertisementHere's a closer look at the Portugal team:COACHThe softly-spoken Santos spent most of his career coaching clubs in Greece and Portugal, including Porto, Sporting Lisbon and Benfica, before being handed the Greece national team job in 2010.As Portugal was failing to advance from its group in 2014, Santos was becoming the first coach to lead Greece into a World Cup knockout phase.GOALKEEPERSRui Patricio of Sporting Lisbon should be starting in goal for another tournament after keeping clean sheets in the semifinals and final at Euro 2016.The reserves are likely to be Anthony Lopes and Beto, with Benfica's Bruno Varela as a reserve option.DEFENDERSJust like at every major tournament since Euro 2008, expect to see veterans Pepe and Bruno Alves in command in central defense.Cedric Soares is preferred at right back, with Borussia Dortmund defender Raphael Guerreiro on the left.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Fabio Coentrao, who didn't make the Euro 2016 team, returned to the squad recently before missing March friendlies because of injury. Barcelona's Nelson Semedo and Napoli's Mario Rui will remain as backup fullback options.MIDFIELDERSJoao Mario and William Carvalho are expected to anchor the midfield again, with Andre Gomes, Adrien Silva and Joao Moutinho fighting for a spot as attacking midfielders along with Bernardo Silva.AdvertisementBut Santos will be without Euro 2016 starter Danilo Pereira after the defensive midfielder sustained a partial tear on his left Achilles tendon while playing with Porto.FORWARDSThis is Ronaldo's domain. After a slow start to the season, Ronaldo has rediscovered his scoring consistency at Real Madrid since January.Leading the attack with Ronaldo is likely to be 26-year-old Andre Dias, who made his tournament debut last year at the Confederations Cup when Portugal finished third.Gelson Martins and Goncalo Guedes have drifted in and out of the team in the last two years, while Ricardo Quaresma has not played since October.Nani and Eder, whose goal in extra time sealed the Euro 2016 victory over France, are unlikely to make the trip to Russia.GROUP GAMESPortugal opens against Spain on June 15 and then plays Morocco on June 20 in Moscow, where the team is based. The Group B schedule will conclude against Iran on June 25.___More AP World Cup coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/WorldCup___Go to Home Page »AdvertisementLIVERPOOL, England — Josep Maria Bartomeu, the president of Barcelona, preferred to focus on what he had gained, rather than what he had lost.“We have earned €105 million,” or about $127 million, he said, “and there is more to invest in football, in assets. Let’s see what we do.”Almost exactly five months later, the watching world now has an answer. What Barcelona has done with all of that money, all of that opportunity, is sign Ousmane Dembélé, a 20-year-old French winger of bright promise, for an initial $126 million, and allocate even more — upward of $175 million, the second-highest fee in history — to the transfer of Philippe Coutinho, Liverpool’s Brazilian playmaker.AdvertisementBut the when is still uncertain. Jamie Carragher, the former Liverpool defender, might be expected to feel his former club should keep hold of one of its crown jewels until the end of the season. The best thing for Liverpool to do, he wrote on Twitter this week, is to agree on a “BIG fee” for Coutinho to leave during the summer, warning that Liverpool’s place in the top four would be “seriously risked” if he departed this month.AdvertisementFrom the player’s perspective, while it is a move he has long craved, the timing is less than ideal: Such a drastic change of scenery in a season that leads into a World Cup carries a little more risk than a key figure in Brazil’s plans might like (even if escaping the brute physicality of the Premier League might be an attraction).That is not to say there is no logic to it. Allowing Coutinho — earmarked as a long-term replacement for Andrés Iniesta — a six-month period to settle in would allow Barcelona to see him flourish more fully next season. More immediately, a move now also might ease the domestic workload on the 33-year-old Iniesta, meaning the team’s coach, Ernesto Valverde, could reserve him for Champions League adventures.Far more important than when, however, is why. As recently as September, Barcelona’s director of professional sports, Albert Soler, claimed the Neymar-inspired hyperinflation of Europe’s already superheated transfer market was “a model of football we are not used to” and insisted that Barcelona “won’t get involved in that.”Yet whenever Coutinho joins, Barcelona will possess two of the most expensive players of all time. P.S.G. and Manchester City might have started the fire, but Barcelona is happily fanning the flames, and it is doing so at a time when the club most at risk of being burned is Barcelona itself.It is now almost a decade since Pep Guardiola took charge of the team that would change soccer. In the summer of 2008, Guardiola was promoted from manager of Barcelona’s B team after only one season and handed the reins of a senior side that included Lionel Messi, Gerard Piqué, Iniesta, Xavi Hernández and, soon, Sergio Busquets.AdvertisementXavi — now in lucrative semiretirement in Qatar — apart, the spine of that team remains in place. It has been graceful to watch — Barcelona always is — but it is an aging team, its beauty slowly dimming, its glory gradually fading. Busquets is a comparative spring chicken, as is Ivan Rakitic, both 29. Messi, Piquè, Iniesta and Javier Mascherano are all the wrong side of 30.They are still expensive, though. Last year, Barcelona announced record revenues of $854 million, when its chief executive, Oscar Grau, boasted that “even teams in the N.F.L. and N.B.A.” did not make that much money.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The club’s salary bill accounted for an eye-watering 63 percent of that (clubs are recommended to spend no more than 70 percent of turnover on salaries), even before a spate of renewals — including that of Messi — are taken into account. Barcelona’s squad is the highest-paid in all of soccer: more than Real Madrid, more than Manchester City, more than P.S.G.Barcelona is adamant it can afford it, though its existence is perhaps a little more hand-to-mouth than the scale of its wealth might suggest. Barcelona projects its revenues will increase again this year, breaking the $900 million mark, but then they will have to if the club is to keep pace with its rapidly inflating salaries.When P.S.G. deposited the $267 million check to cover Neymar’s buyout clause, Barcelona had a chance to break that cycle. As Bartomeu said, it was an “opportunity,” and a golden one.For years, Barcelona has recruited desperately poorly. It is a club that the world’s finest players would do almost anything to join — as Coutinho, and Luis Suárez before him, prove — and yet its approach to acquisitions is haphazard and chaotic.Last summer, what was supposed to be a move for P.S.G.’s Marco Verratti somehow became the sale of Neymar. A deal for Nice’s Ivorian midfielder Jean Michael Seri collapsed amid rumors that talks had only begun because Barcelona fans kept mentioning his name. Liverpool held firm on Coutinho.Last month, Atlético Madrid threatened to complain to FIFA about Barcelona’s pursuit of Antoine Griezmann. The club might have added Dembélé and Nélson Semedo last summer, two bright young things, but a midfield in desperate need of rejuvenation was bolstered only by Paulinho, 29, signed from China’s Guangzhou Evergrande.The current league standings might not suggest it, but Real Madrid has its future in hand. Barcelona remains locked to its past, seemingly unable to think about replacing the players that have brought so much success. Bartomeu has talked about re-energizing the production line of young talent from La Masia, its famed academy, but that seems more a pipe dream than a plan.AdvertisementFive months ago, Barcelona had a fortune with which to rebuild itself. Whenever Coutinho arrives, most of that money will be gone. And yet the problems, the issues it has refused to confront for so long, will remain.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byPHILADELPHIA — When T. J. McConnell, a reserve guard for the Philadelphia 76ers, was married last summer, his brother and best friend surprised him at the end of the reception. The funky beat of a familiar song filled the room as the dance floor flooded with friends and family.McConnell knew the lyrics by heart:Here they come, Philadelphia,On the run, stand up and cheer!No. 1, Philadelphia,Here they come, team of the year!“Everyone went nuts,” McConnell said.The song was “Here Come the Sixers,” a disco-flavored anthem from 1975 that has become the soundtrack for the N.B.A.’s most precocious team. The 76ers are so young, they might as well take a school bus to their games. But they commemorate their victories by dancing to a song that practically struts down the street in bell-bottoms while shaking a tambourine.“It’s very strange,” said Terry Rocap, 70, a musician who performed on the original recording. “But it’s a good tune. People seem to like it.”The 76ers, under the direction of Scott O’Neil, their chief executive, have been dipping into the franchise’s past even as the team reinvents itself. Chris Heck, their president for business operations, cited the team’s new slate of uniforms, which quilt together several eras: There’s “Phila” lettering from 1960, stars from the 1970s and a collar taken from the jerseys worn by the 76ers during the 1982-83 season, when they last won an N.B.A. championship.“When Scott came in about five years ago, we got together and said, ‘We need to start bringing back what was great about the Sixers,’” Heck said. “Because the heritage is amazing.”That heritage also includes “Here Come the Sixers,” which O’Neil hoped to incorporate in recent seasons as a regular part of the game-night experience. But Heck said the rest of the staff voted to reserve it for home wins, which meant that nobody got to hear it much at all. (The Sixers were 10-72 just two seasons ago.)But success-starved fans of the team are optimistic. The 76ers employ several young players who are actually decent at basketball. And despite some recent growing pains, they should contend this season for their first playoff berth since 2012. Victories are hard-earned, though, and “Here Come the Sixers” is still something of a rare treat.“Scott’s always like, ‘I want to hear it more!’” Heck said. “And we’re like: ‘We love it, too. But we have to stay disciplined.’”The song urges fans to “clap your hands” and “stomp your feet” in support of “the team of the year,” which is, of course, the 76ers. For the musicians behind the song, its renaissance has been a pleasant surprise.“We figured the song would just be a fleeting moment of glory,” said Randy Childress, 68, who played bass guitar on the song. “But now it’s going to be on my epitaph.”At the time of the song’s creation, Childress was doing odd jobs for the 76ers while he finished his degree at Temple. He recalled that he once earned $500 for dressing up as a turkey at a game before Thanksgiving. A pair of female ushers, clad in pilgrim costumes, led him around.“I did all sorts of stupid stuff,” he said.As for the team itself, the 76ers were on the rise after years of yawn-inducing mediocrity. But Pat Williams, then the general manager, understood the 76ers needed to add some pep to the game-day experience if they were to draw larger crowds to the Spectrum, the team’s arena at the time.“We were trying to create the kind of atmosphere where it was a fun place to come,” he said in a telephone interview.So when Williams learned that Childress was in a rock band, he had an idea: Perhaps the 76ers needed their own theme song.Armed with a new assignment, Childress invited Rocap and a third bandmate named Joe Sherwood to his small apartment, where he had a four-track machine. They hammered out a demo, the original beat set by the steady dribble of a basketball.“Boink, boink, boink, boink,” Childress said.One morning, after watching “Sesame Street” with his 7-year-old daughter, Rocap arrived with lyrics:One, two, three-four-five, Sixers!Ten, nine, eight, 76ers!“And we’re going, ‘Oh, that’s great,’” Childress said. “So that’s where the initial burst came from, and then we built the whole song around it.”The band, known as Fresh Aire, wrote the song in E major, a key at the top of the vocal range for most male tenors. By pushing that range, Sherwood said, the song created energy. And in hopes of protecting its shelf life, over the years the band kept the lyrics free of references to specific players on the team — even the illustrious Julius Erving.On the track, the band harmonizes to an accompaniment that includes guitars, piano, bass and drums. Sherwood’s brother Richard gave the song some soul by jamming out on a Hohner Clavinet, a keyboard instrument at the height of cool in the 1970s thanks to Stevie Wonder.“My brother added a little riff,” said Joe Sherwood, 70, who began singing: “Here they come! Deedley deedley deeeee!”Williams, the Sixers’ general manager, appreciated how the song turned out — it was exactly what he wanted, he said — but the team kept its rollout subtle.“It really wasn’t a big deal,” Sherwood said. “There wasn’t any big hoopla or major announcement. They just started playing it.”World B. Free, 64, a former guard who now works as an ambassador for the team, was a first-year player when the song made its debut. Before home games, the song’s first few beats would reach the players as they took the floor. It became an even bigger deal once Erving, known as Dr. J, joined the team the next season.“We’d be coming out of the tunnel and the crowd would be getting juiced up,” Free said. “And then Doc would come out there with that big ol’ Afro and start throwing it down: Boom!”For better or for worse, the song has stuck with Free through the decades.“I hear it in my sleep,” he said.In the wake of “Here Come the Sixers,” other teams reached out to the band to write their theme songs, including one for the N.H.L.’s Washington Capitals called “Clap for the Caps.” But none of them had much staying power. And when Williams left the 76ers organization in 1986, the song more or less left with him.“But it had a good run,” Williams said.Childress, Rocap and Sherwood, meanwhile, spent several years touring and playing at clubs. Sherwood eventually started a recruiting business. Rocap became a professional window washer. Childress, who had studied architecture, began designing exhibits for trade shows and museums.The Sixers’ theme song was largely forgotten until the early 2000s, when it was resuscitated by Angelo Cataldi, a longtime host for Sports Radio 94WIP in Philadelphia.“We were really excited about the team, and we needed a song,” Cataldi said. “So we did some research and we found out there was really only one, and it was this ’70s disco thing, and it was dated and absurd. But that’s kind of our show.”Cataldi now regrets the part he played in keeping “Here Come the Sixers” alive — it’s not his favorite song, he said — but many others seem to have a more favorable opinion.Last season, Joel Embiid, the team’s effervescent center, celebrated a win against the Knicks by dancing to the song with several cheerleaders. Some of his teammates are similarly enchanted by it.“I actually play it all the time,” said McConnell, the 76ers guard. “My friends will be like, ‘Let me hear the song!’ And I’ll put it on.”When Williams, now senior vice president for the Orlando Magic, delivered the keynote address at a prayer breakfast in October, he was surprised by the entertainment: a rendition of “Here Come the Sixers” performed by Childress and Rocap.“I sat there listening, and I couldn’t believe what was happening,” Williams said. “These 700 people were carrying on like it was a Billy Graham crusade.”Williams said the reason for the song’s popularity was no secret.“Everybody likes to tap their toes and clap their hands,” Williams said. “Winning helps, too.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementJust days after employees at NFL Network were accused of sexual harassment, the Carolina Panthers said Friday that the team had begun an investigation into “allegations of workplace misconduct” made against the team’s owner, Jerry Richardson.“The Carolina Panthers and Mr. Richardson take these allegations very seriously and are fully committed to a full investigation and taking appropriate steps to address and remediate any misconduct,” the statement said.The investigation into Richardson brings a broadening focus on workplace harassment to the heart of the country’s wealthiest and most powerful sports league. While he has assumed a lower profile recently, Richardson for years traveled in the inner circle of the league’s business. He is the lone former N.F.L. player within the league’s ownership fraternity.AdvertisementThe Panthers announced that the team had hired the law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan to look into the accusations against Richardson, and that Erskine Bowles, a Clinton administration official and a minority owner of the team, would oversee the investigation.AdvertisementIt is unclear how independent the investigation will be because it is being led by a team stakeholder who is presumably close to Richardson. In other investigations of sports franchise owners, the league itself has taken the lead, such as when the N.B.A. looked into racist remarks made by Donald Sterling, then the owner of the Los Angeles Clippers.Bowles was the White House chief of staff for President Bill Clinton in 1997 and 1998, when an investigation began into Clinton’s sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky, who was a White House intern.Richardson has served on many of the influential owners’ committees, and he played a large role in ending the N.F.L. lockout in 2011. In 2015, he was at the center of the league’s handling of domestic violence allegations. He announced the Panthers would not re-sign defensive end Greg Hardy — who had been suspended by the league and convicted of domestic violence, though the conviction was later overturned. Richardson explained the decision simply: “We do the right things.”The investigation into Richardson was first reported by ESPN.N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said Wednesday at an owners meeting in Dallas that the league would investigate the claims in the lawsuit.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The N.F.L. updated its personal conduct policy in 2014, expanding the guidelines and penalties to cover not just players, but all employees. The league also set up its own investigative unit to look into claims of misconduct off the field.Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L. spokesman, declined to comment on the investigation involving Richardson.Richardson, 81, has largely dropped out of view in the past two years. The turning point came when the league’s owners voted to let the Rams move from St. Louis to Los Angeles in 2016. He had recommended that the Oakland Raiders and the San Diego Chargers be allowed to move there. (The Chargers moved to Los Angeles this year.)Advertisement“We should not manage to avoid criticism, but work passionately to provide positive outcomes,” Richardson wrote. “Nothing less should be expected or accepted.”Richardson has endured several health scares. He has overcome prostate cancer, and he had a heart transplant in 2009.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementA battle over pleasure has broken out. On Twitter and in the pages of scientific journals, psychologists, neurologists and neuroscientists are forging alliances over the question of whether pleasure we get from art is somehow different from the pleasure we get from candy, sex or drugs.She offered up an unconventional solution: art, which she says engages us in ways these other pleasures do not and can “help overwrite the detrimental effects of dysfunctional urges and craving.”The paper struck a nerve with some of her fellow art and pleasure researchers, who published a rebuttal last month in the same journal. The idea that the way that art engages the brain is somehow special has been around for far too long and it is time to kill it off once and for all, they insist.AdvertisementAdvertisementThe arguments over Dr. Christensen’s paper pointed to disputes within the emerging field of neuroaesthetics, or the study of the neural processes underlying our appreciation and the production of beautiful objects and artworks:■ On Team 1 you’ll find the argument that the experience of pleasure from art is neurobiologically identical to the experience of pleasure from candy or sex.■ Team 2 believes that both making and appreciating art can offer unique neurobiological rewards.■ Team 3 asks, “Who knows?!” (“Who cares?!” seems to be a subset of this group.)Given that pleasure is known to be a powerful motivator of human behavior, it’s a dispute with implications far beyond art — at least according to Team 1 and Team 2.There are some core elements that all sides seem to agree on:■ As with wine, how much people enjoy art seems to be affected by contextual cues like price or the reputation of the creator.■ Art is difficult but possible to define. (Definitions vary, however.)■ Across cultures, what people perceive as beautiful is less consistent with artwork than it is with architecture, landscapes and faces. (Faces are the most consistent.)What researchers do not agree on is whether enjoying a da Vinci engages a different neural process than enjoying a visit to Pornhub or McDonald’s.Dr. Nadal, speaking for Team 1, said in an interview that “humans appear to use only one pleasure system to assess how pleasurable or unpleasurable a sensory experience is.” He calls this discovery “one of the most important insights to emerge from the last 15 years of neuroscience,” and believes it shows that while enjoying Cheez-Its or a sculpture may feel different, in our brains they are processed the same way.Others who study pleasure are not convinced.“Talking in terms of shared neural systems is foolish,” said Paul Bloom, a psychology professor at Yale University and author of the book “How Pleasure Works: The New Science of Why We Like What We Like.”He thinks that “art scratches all kinds of itches.” While watching “The Sopranos” or parallel parking a car are all done by the brain, he says that doesn’t mean they are the same.“I know these projects are totally irrational, totally useless,” the conceptual artist Christo has said about his $16.8 million project “The Floating Piers.” Some researchers would point to science to say that’s not true — its benefits are special.AdvertisementThis “high-level pleasure” requires more scientific investigation. But given that we spend our lives chasing pleasures, she argues, why not try to better understand one of the few that “do not induce states of craving without fulfillment,” or cause health problems and instead make “you think and experience things differently.”All of this may lead you to ask: If pleasures are so similar, why don’t people ever orgasm from pleasure associated with food or art? Actually some do.She cannot yet say why, which lends support to the broader notion that “there is really so much we as scientists still don’t understand about pleasure.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementAs protests by N.F.L. players during the national anthem seem to have settled down, the grievance case against the league by the man who started it all, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, is proceeding.You may not have heard much about it lately because it is transpiring behind closed doors. And it is unlike any legal proceeding you might have seen before, not really a trial but with elements of one.The rules on how the investigation is conducted and by whom — and all the quirks of what evidence is allowed — are detailed in the byzantine labor agreement between the league and players.It was designed with due process in mind, but as often happens with cases involving the N.F.L., the decisions are appealed and end up in federal court.AdvertisementKaepernick, who began kneeling last season during the anthem to protest racism and police brutality toward African-Americans, opted out of his contract in March and has not played a down since.AdvertisementYet he has become a rallying point for protests, with dozens of players this season at various points kneeling or making some gesture during the anthem, though lately the numbers have trailed off. In the meantime, he has watched about two dozen quarterbacks — including one who came out of retirement — join teams.Here is a look at his case:Who will hear the case?Under Article 17 of the labor agreement between the N.F.L. and the players, all cases of collusion are heard by an independent arbitrator appointed by agreement of the N.F.L. and the players’ union. Stephen B. Burbank, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, has held that role for many years.What are the rules for gathering evidence?Unusual for a sports labor agreement, the N.F.L. uses the Federal Rules of Evidence, which are more in line with court trials. This means, among other things, that third-party companies will be hired to help gather evidence, including, for instance, a search of computers and cellphones of league and team officials to find references to Kaepernick. The arbitrator will weigh the evidence and arguments of both sides, perhaps conducting hearings, and make a decision.What is the definition of collusion in this case?According to the league’s labor agreement, which was last updated in 2011, no team, its employees or agents “shall enter into any agreement, express or implied, with the NFL or any other Club, its employees or agents to restrict or limit individual Club decision-making” negotiations with any player.How will Kaepernick prove there was collusion to keep him out?Several quarterbacks of seemingly lesser ability or experience have been signed as starters or backups, something Kaepernick’s lawyers point to as evidence teams are deliberately passing over his client.But proving collusion will be difficult, legal experts say, because teams have many reasons for signing one quarterback over another, including his age, his salary, his temperament, how he fits into an offensive system and other available quarterbacks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There’s a host of reasons why a club would individually or independently not offer him a contract,” said Matt Mitten, the executive director of the National Sports Law Institute at Marquette University Law School. “So it will be tough for them to argue that there was a tacit agreement.”It also is rare to find an email, text or phone conversation that explicitly shows that teams worked together to shun a player, or that league officials directed them to do so.AdvertisementHow does Kaepernick intend to prove collusion?Kaepernick’s lawyer, Mark Geragos, a prominent criminal lawyer based in Los Angeles, has submitted a list of people he wants to depose, including Commissioner Roger Goodell and several owners who have been vocal about their opposition to player protests, including Jerry Jones, the Dallas Cowboys’ owner, and the owner of the Houston Texans, Bob McNair.He will also look for clues in the emails and other documentation from the computer and cellphones searches. The N.F.L., though, can argue that the document requests are too broad or the requests to depose certain individuals are irrelevant. The arbitrator will ultimately decide on any objections.Have players won collusion cases in the past?Collusion cases involving individual players are rare in the N.F.L., but baseball players filed a series of successful cases against Major League Baseball in the 1980s.How much of this case will be public?Very little of the proceedings of the grievance will be made public, though the ruling will ultimately be released. It is unlikely a decision will be made before the season ends.What does Kaepernick stand to gain if he wins?According to the labor agreement, Kaepernick would receive twice what he might have earned if he was playing.Could the two sides settle before a ruling?In theory, yes. The N.F.L. might, for instance, want to avoid having its top executives deposed or any negative publicity stemming from the case. In exchange for his dropping the case, they could offer Kaepernick a financial settlement, while admitting no wrongdoing.Would the league be forced to give him a shot on a team if it is shown it deliberately kept him out?The league cannot force a team to assess or sign Kaepernick.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementORLANDO, Fla. — The N.F.L. believes it has finally figured out one of the most basic aspects of football: what is a catch.In hopes of clarifying what has consistently been one of its most frustrating on-field issues, the league announced on Tuesday that as part of several adopted proposals from the league’s competition committee it had redefined, and hopefully simplified, what constitutes a catch. But the door was certainly left open for future debate.In the simplest terms, a player has to catch the ball, land in bounds, and then do something that demonstrates he has control of the ball.The new definition is similar in spirit to what was previously on the books, but both the main rule and its attached notes were rewritten significantly in hopes of clarifying things for players, officials and fans. The terminology now states that a catch will have occurred if a player, who is in bounds:(a) secures control of the ball in his hands or arms before the ball touches the ground; and(b) touches the ground inbounds with both feet or with any part of his body other than his hands; and(c) after (a) and (b) have been fulfilled, performs any act common to the game (e.g., tucks the ball away, extends it toward or over the goal line or the first-down line, takes an additional step, turns upfield, or avoids or wards off an opponent), or maintains control of the ball long enough to do so.The N.F.L. removed the stipulation that a player who has satisfied those three criteria must also survive “going to the ground” with the ball. A player will only have to survive the ground if he has yet to satisfy category (c).AdvertisementAdvertisementJames, who still believes his catch should have been a touchdown, said the changes should help the game be called more consistently.The sticking point, though, regardless of how many spectacular touchdowns are preserved, could prove to be the issue of fumbles. The “going to the ground” language was introduced to the N.F.L. rule book in 1982 with the goal of eliminating what had become a disturbing trend of fumbles at the end of catches, and this week’s change could inadvertently bring that problem back in full force.At a news conference on Monday announcing the proposed changes, Al Riveron, the N.F.L.’s senior vice president of officiating, acknowledged that significantly changing the “going to the ground” language would most likely mean an uptick in fumbles, but he said that fan pressure was involved in the decision making.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Are we going to see more fumbles? Maybe,” Riveron said. “We want to make these catches catches. That’s what the fans want.”Rich McKay, the president of the Atlanta Falcons, said that he would trade 10 more fumbles for five more memorable catches, and that the league’s history of tweaking the catch rule had led to far too much confusion, necessitating a total overhaul of how catches are handled.“We needed to start over,” he said. “It got to us, we need to get objective standards.”Riveron and McKay acknowledged that it was Bryant’s overturned catch that started the debate leaguewide, but the volume was turned up after Commissioner Roger Goodell vowed to fix things.“I think we can clarify this rule,” Goodell said at his annual news conference before the Super Bowl. “With a lot of hard work, focus, get to a place where — I’m not going to say there won’t be controversy — but we can get to a better place. We have a great opportunity to get this thing right.”AdvertisementOwners said they would still brace for controversial calls. but predicted there would be fewer of them.“This rule change is not gonna solve every single issue, you’re still going to have a certain amount of subjectivity,” said John Mara, the president of the Giants.The league also changed language to try to curb dangerous hits that make use of a player’s helmet, altering the rule book in two places. Under the section on unnecessary roughness, it removes the necessity that contact with a helmet be initiated “violently or uneccessarily” and simply bans the practice outright. In the section on initiating contact with the crown of the helmet, the proposal drastically simplifies matters. It now reads “USE OF THE HELMET: It is a foul if a player lowers his head to initiate and make contact with his helmet against an opponent.”Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting from New York.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementATLANTA — Drew Speraw, a Kansas State assistant coach, found himself in an unenviable position near the end of the Wildcats’ tight win over the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, last Sunday: He had to physically grab his boss.Bruce Weber, Kansas State’s head coach, is a defense-first guy. In the second half, while his team was on defense against U.M.B.C., the action was on the other end of the court from the Kansas State bench. As Weber yelled instructions and imprecations to his players over the noise of the crowd, he inched closer and closer to midcourt like a salmon traveling upstream in spurts and, like plenty of other coaches, even wandered onto the court itself sometimes.Those are no-nos in college basketball, grounds for a technical foul, which is a terrible thing during a close game. Just ask Kentucky Coach John Calipari, who got whistled for drifting beyond the coach’s box in his team’s loss to Kansas State Thursday night.In Kansas State’s game last weekend, Weber had already been warned. Fortunately, Speraw is used to it, and he knows the responsibility that goes with his position by Weber on the bench.Advertisement“I’m the closest one,” Speraw said after Sunday’s game in Charlotte, N.C.On Wednesday, Weber said that while he is a frequent migrant down the sideline, one boundary is clear.Advertisement“My thing is, if you yell at the refs, you should get a technical,” he said.But he defended his intention — leading his team to victory — and actions — shouting, pacing, pushing the limits of the coach’s box.“If we’re coaching our guys,” he said, “that’s what we’re paid to do.”The N.C.A.A. doesn’t necessarily disagree. This is the first season of an expanded coach’s box, which is the area the head coach may patrol during play. Vigorous sideline generals received an extra 10 feet this season; they may now roam from the baseline all the way to a mark 38 feet away. That’s a midrange jump shot from midcourt, which is 47 feet from the baseline.“I have had officials tell me that it was expanded for me,” Weber said.College basketball coaches are easy subjects for ridicule. N.B.A. fans scoff at their hyperactivity and point to professional coaches’ comparatively calm mien, even though N.B.A. coaches may stray as much as 43 feet from the baseline. Casual observers wonder why these blustering, nattily dressed bombasts can’t stay cool.The college coaches say they deserve sympathy. Their charges are younger than most players in the N.B.A. Their teams can feel especially far away while on defense, seeking crucial late-game stops out of vocal range for even the loudest coach. Most coaches are former players with decades of experience who now watch mostly helplessly as post-adolescents try to implement months of training in a few essential seconds. Their antics also make for great TV.Yet they have to stay inside an invisible box during games or risk a penalty that could tangibly hurt their team. The correct call for a coach’s box violation after a warning is a Class B technical foul, giving the other team one free throw and the ball, inbounded where it was when the foul was called.“I have a young team, and sometimes they don’t talk,” Alabama Coach Avery Johnson said last week between first- and second-round games. “You can hear it in my voice. I’ve got to talk for them. I got warned yesterday, and, probably, going to get warned tomorrow.”Despite plenty of yelling and straying, Johnson and Alabama lost to Duke on Sunday night.In a world where referees “T-up” coaches for far more subjectively determined violations, there is an argument that the coach’s box is extraneous, even condescending. Anecdotally, there appear to be few T’s actually called (the N.C.A.A. said it did not keep the statistic). Kansas Coach Bill Self complained that he had been whistled once this year “for sticking my toe two inches outside the box.”Advertisement“We represent universities,” South Carolina Coach Frank Martin said in a phone interview. “We’re grown men. We’re employed. We get treated like we’re immature. We’ve got to be in this small little confined area. We’re not going to go to the other bench and instigate something.”This understanding was partly why the box was expanded, according to Art Hyland, secretary-rules editor of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball rules committee. It is also why referees are instructed to first give the bench a warning.“People felt empathy that the coaches really needed a little more room in order to do their job correctly,” Hyland said.An extra 10 feet turns out to be a lot, Self said Thursday in Omaha before the Jayhawks’ round of 16 game. He thought it was a “pretty insignificant change” when it was announced last June, but now that it has been in place for a season, he said, “It’s been a great rule.”“You feel like you can actually have a little bit more communication on the other end of the floor,” he said.On Wednesday, before Thursday night’s violation, Calipari blamed the tight strictures of the old box for one of the most infamous coach’s box technical fouls in the college game.“At the Spectrum where they had all those lines,” Calipari said. “I’m standing there and the guy calls a T from 90 feet away. ‘You’re out of the box.’ And I really wasn’t out of the box, but it looked like it.”AdvertisementCalipari had no such defense or excuse Thursday night.In practice, there is frequently a live-and-let-live dynamic between referees and hyperactive coaches. Warnings are issued; actual fouls, less so.Ed Hightower, a retired referee, said officials often find that assistant coaches are better interlocutors for conveying the warnings. Speraw, Weber’s assistant, said that the referees had spoken to the staff at halftime of the U.M.B.C. game.When warning coaches that they were in danger of violating this rule, Hightower said he would often say, “You don’t want to make me do something I don’t want to do.”“Ninety percent of the time, I would say, the coaches are just so caught up in the moment, coaching their kids,” Hightower said. “It’s an emotional sport.”Go to Home Page »