AdvertisementSupported byThe New York Times had a spotty record of covering the AIDS epidemic in the early 1980s — and gay culture in general. Times staffers reflect on the paper’s past, and what we can learn from it today.Like most children of the 1980s, I can’t remember a time when I wasn’t hearing about AIDS. I was in my early teens during the height of the epidemic, and it permeated almost everything in my young consciousness: school, culture, sports and the evening news. This was when the Indiana teenager Ryan White was dying, basketball star Magic Johnson announced he’d contracted H.I.V., Tom Hanks won the Oscar for playing an infected gay man in 1993’s “Philadelphia” and the disease became the leading cause of death among Americans aged 25 to 44. At school, the AIDS lexicon was drilled into our heads. We knew by then that you couldn’t get it from a toilet seat or a kiss. But we were constantly reminded how we could get it: “Unprotected sex” and “dirty needles” would fill in the blanks on many a health class pop-quiz about “risk behaviors.”I recently talked to the reporter who wrote that article, my colleague Lawrence K. Altman, a physician with training in epidemiology, who told me what a hindrance it was in those first years of AIDS that people struggled to find the right language. This was true, he said, not just for the government officials and doctors talking about the disease on television and in print, but also for the journalists who had to explain it. In doing so, they often employed the same euphemisms, like “bodily fluids,” to substitute for words like semen, leaving the impression that saliva from a kiss might infect you.AIDS has always been scary to me. But this shed light on a different kind of fear that I hadn’t quite contemplated, the kind that gay men before me must have felt as they watched this plague kill their friends and were left wondering whether they would be next. For my generation, it was the known that was so terrifying. We knew that if you somehow caught the disease it might be a death sentence. But we also knew how you caught it and therefore how to avoid it. The fear of the unknown, it dawned on me, would have been far worse.The flier, sleek and disarming, showed up one day on newsroom bulletin boards in the summer of 1992. It was an invitation in search of a guest list.It was the first time that gay people working at The New York Times had publicly advertised one of their pride parties, which had been happening for six years. “The idea that a bunch of gay people from The Times would get together and have a party was remarkable, after so many years of hiding,” said Richard J. Meislin, a former reporter and editor, who kept his sexuality secret until the 1980s, when other queer people at the newspaper started to come out.It wasn’t easy to be gay at The Times when Meislin started in 1975 as a copy boy. Many employees felt that A.M. “Abe” Rosenthal, the paper’s editor, was homophobic. And the publisher at the time, Arthur “Punch” Sulzberger, had his own blind spots, according to his son. “Abe was part of the challenge. It was one of the issues my father struggled with as well,” said Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher since 1992, who recently handed over the reins to his son, A.G. “The way [gay people] were being treated by being forced to be hidden was antithetical to the values of the company and the values of journalism.”Meislin, for instance, never had control of his own story: He was outed by AIDS, even though he didn’t have the disease. After arriving in Mexico City as a correspondent in 1983, he got sick with a mysterious ailment that made his joints ache. The paper sent an editor to check on him, because some people thought he’d contracted H.I.V. He hadn’t, and though Meislin recovered within weeks, word of his sexuality reportedly got to Rosenthal’s desk. Two and a half years later, Meislin was called back to New York City, cutting short his prestigious stint abroad. “The perception in the newsroom was that I was brought back because I was gay,” he said. “And it’s one that I shared.”Cartwright, who started at the Times in 1977, said that episode was one of many reasons she didn’t come to terms with her gender identity sooner. “If you lived openly as a gay person you were sticking your neck out.”Rosenthal, who died in 2006, denied that Meislin’s move had anything to do with his sexuality in an interview with Michelangelo Signorile for The Advocate 26 years ago. “People who are used to being discriminated against will sometimes take certain acts as being discriminatory when they’re not,” he told the magazine.Nancy Lee, who eventually became the paper’s picture editor, didn’t dare put a photo of her girlfriend at her desk when she arrived in 1980. “That was to risk everything,” said Lee, who is now the executive editor of The New York Times News Service & Syndicate.To me, those stories are unavoidably personal. I started at The Times as a clerk to a columnist in 2012, while I was figuring out that I was a lesbian. I never came out to him, because I wasn’t sure I wanted him to know. After I left and returned as a reporter three years later, I put a photo of my girlfriend at the time next to my computer.The path to my comfort, I now know, was paved by people like Lee, who decided to show up to New York’s pride parade in the late 1980s with other closeted Times staffers. “We weren’t wearing any New York Times gear, but we knew we were at risk,” she said. “People were photographing it. You could end up on the news.” They had their first pride party in 1987. Sulzberger Jr., then an editor, had started meeting with his gay colleagues several years earlier. “He would take us to lunch and say ‘I know you’re gay and don’t worry about it, you’re going to be fine,’” Dunlap said.Progress happened quickly after the caucus revved up, thanks partly to Sulzberger Jr.’s determination to get The Times out in front of the issue. The company began offering spousal benefits to gay couples in 1994. And in 1998, Cartwright judged the newsroom ready to handle her own coming out, typed and printed on yellow paper and tacked onto more than a dozen bulletin boards throughout the building. “I have decided to resolve a longstanding conflict in my life by beginning to live full time as a woman,” the letter said. Cartwright, a former copy editor, remembers hurrying back to her desk after posting the last copy and walking by the clump of people reading what she’d written. Someone looked at her, and smiled. She started showing up to work as Donna six weeks later.“The only part that was difficult was getting people to stop calling me ‘he’ and ‘him,’” she said. She told someone in human resources, who reminded staff of Cartwright’s pronouns, but it just kept happening. One day she realized that she was just being too polite: “One time when someone referred to me as ‘he’ I got visibly angry about it, and that worked, so I did it a couple of times.” She didn’t have many problems after that.The Times gave Cartwright a key to a bathroom on the 11th floor of the building. After she had gender reassignment surgery, she began to use the ladies’ room.When I told her that The Times still doesn’t have gender neutral bathrooms, she caught her breath. “They may have decided that I was a unicorn,” she said. She suggested quietly letting the paper’s leaders know that “The Times is kind of behind the times on this.” If asking nicely doesn’t work, Cartwright said, we could always get visibly angry. It worked for her.The front page of The Times has long held a sacred place in the media. Back then, seven or eight stories, filed from Washington and around the world, would set the day’s agenda. For decades, TV morning-news producers have used the front page as a guide to mapping out top stories. And yet roughly 700 editions of the paper had come and gone before AIDS, quickly turning into a full-fledged crisis, had earned a spot on Page One. It was never lost on AIDS activists just how vital the paper was — and for how long it did not pay serious attention to the disease.“Are you kidding?” emailed Larry Kramer, the activist and writer. “The front page of The New York Times is the most important real estate in the world for getting any issue out. As The Times goes, so will every other news outlet all over the globe.”So why was The Times seemingly indifferent to the story for so long?The paper’s Science desk, which was responsible for reporting on outbreaks at the time, was overtaxed in the early 1980s, and it did not help that identifying the cause of AIDS was a slow burn. “Science news was running as fast and freely as Trump is today,” said Lawrence K. Altman, the Times reporter who wrote the rare cancer story and still works at the paper. He cited stories the desk covered about President Reagan and Pope John Paul II getting shot, along with advances being made with the artificial heart.If the burden was then on other sections at the paper, top editors were less than enthusiastic about surfacing the story. “There were strong messages that you got that were not written on any whiteboard,” said David W. Dunlap, a reporter in the Metro section at the time. “You knew to avoid it. It was a self-reinforcing edict: Don’t write about queers.”And then there was Kramer’s perspective: “Every friend I had from those days is now dead because it was no secret that Abe Rosenthal hated homosexuals,” he said, referring to the paper’s executive editor at the time. “This is the chief reason why I hate The New York Times.”Max Frankel, the former editorial page editor at the paper, which operated separately from the newsroom, said this was in keeping with the paper’s ethos at the time: “They were being squeamish for some reason,” Frankel said, speaking of the newsroom. “Their squeamishness was actually damaging to the public understanding of what was going on.”Frankel, who would take over the newsroom in 1986 as executive editor, said the editorial department was quicker than the news columns to describe “anal intercourse” as a means of spreading the disease. “Whatever their rules were down there, we said we’re going to do it our way,” he said. “That was the approach.”By that point, the death toll was fast approaching 600 people.Newspapers can be funny places. Writers know. Take the premium placed on brevity, concision and economy. Saying more with less, it’s called. Good advice. Maddening rigorousness. Depends on the day. But sometimes it hits a snag. In order to say “SYTYCD,” for instance, it’s probably helpful to use “So You Think You Can Dance?” first. The show needs a proper name before a concise one. For three decades, though, newspapers — this newspaper — made an exception. There’s nothing more concise than AIDS. It names a larger disease: acquired immune deficiency syndrome. But, really, “AIDS” gets the job done. Only, it was an improper name. And so it often went unused, since it named an impropriety.Medically, it’s not really AIDS that kills you. AIDS acts as a doorjamb for other diseases to traipse in and ravage a body. But the average obituary noted what traipsed but omitted what made the traipsing possible. “AIDS-related” rarely appeared — nor did coverage of the deaths of black people and Latinos.Newspapers can be funny places. So can people. The omission of AIDS wasn’t necessarily an editorial judgment. It’s often up to the families and friends and physicians of the deceased to state how they died. In a real power move, the dying could name their cause of death. To see Roy Cohn die in “Angels in America” is to know that. Liver cancer was his preferred cause of death, not the complications from AIDS that actually killed him. That was for homosexuals, a label he swore he was too good for. AIDS killed people. But it also threatened to kill pride. Families, friends and co-workers died of embarrassment. No one wanted to go to an AIDS funeral. Hence the euphemisms and the workarounds. There was only so much they could cover up, of course, since lots of people went to too many AIDS funerals.It was a world that thrived in the shadows of New York — late at night, hidden on dark streets behind barely-marked doorways, typically guarded by a man sitting on a stool under a light bulb. What took place inside ranged from questionable to outright illicit: the full-service bar that kept serving drinks after 4 a.m., the open use of cocaine and marijuana and, in many cases, the anonymous and often marathon sexual encounters among gay men. Sex clubs, bathhouses, back rooms, movie theaters, after-hours bars, dance clubs — places like Alex in Wonderland and the Mine Shaft and the New St. Marks Baths, all part of New York in the 1970s and early 1980s. This was a culture that was known to some of gay New York, but arguably not most of it. And it certainly was not known to most of straight New York.The AIDS epidemic changed all that. Almost overnight, as panic spread and Governor Mario M. Cuomo issued regulations in late 1985 to close down establishments where unsafe sexual activity took place, this underground world came crashing to the surface. A battery of city inspectors, police officers and reporters went in undercover to see for themselves what was going on behind those doors — and shared their findings with the public. “The Case for Closing Bathhouses: Night Visit by Post Reporter Reveals Shocking Evidence,” read a New York Post headline over a 1985 story that described, in considerable detail, what the reporter saw and heard as he moved through the dark warren of a bathhouse. It was part of stream of columns and editorials — not to mention grainy video from local news cameras that had been secreted into the clubs — that was turning up the pressure on public officials.It was challenging for news organizations as well, drawn to the story for legitimate reasons (a health crisis) and perhaps less noble reasons (sensationalism) as they struggled with just how explicitly detailed the reports needed to be. And no less discomfited were many in the city’s gay and lesbian community, concerned that raising the curtain on a world that most people did not know existed could threaten the gay rights movement after a decade of progress. Some gay leaders decried the city crackdown as an assault on privacy. “Consensual sexual activity by adults out of public view should always be beyond the eye and the arm of government,” said Thomas B. Stoddard, the executive director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, in 1988. Others considered it a legitimate response to a health emergency. “Is compulsive sexuality freedom?’” Jim Fouratt, one of the city’s earliest gay activists, said a few weeks before the city cracked down. “I would argue it’s not. All we got was a lot more alienated sexually, and a lot more disease.”Cuomo, whom I covered at the time as a Daily News reporter based in Albany, would seem at times astonished — even ashen-faced — as he learned about this side of New York from inspectors and aides struggling to advise the governor about which kind of sexual practices the state might regulate. Down in the city, Mayor Edward I. Koch was already facing criticism that he was slow to act in combating the epidemic; gay political leaders contended that it was because the mayor, who never married and lived in Greenwich Village, was gay. (At various points in his life, Koch said he was not, or would not answer the question.)As the mayor and governor were at odds about what to do (sound familiar?), Cuomo’s health advisers, after much debate, recommended shutting down establishments that permitted unsafe-sex practices. City Hall pushed back, as many of Koch’s aides argued that a crackdown would simply push this kind of behavior into darker corners, making it harder to regulate. Cuomo finally moved, essentially ignoring the mayor as he issued state regulations that would close clubs that permitted these kinds of activities, and leaving it to cities to enforce. Koch resisted at first, contending the order was poorly drafted and difficult to implement: He was obviously aware of how many gay activists viewed this as a civil rights issue, a setback at a time when gay rights seemed to be on the advance.But that wasn’t always the case.The problem was, there was no definitive evidence to support that claim, only the opinions of public health officials who, when asked, were quick to poke holes in the story. They invoked the word “speculation” three times. A hospital supervisor in Brooklyn was even quoted saying the opposite: “We are continuing to see tremendous amounts of sexual activity among adolescents.”So why was this piece published in the first place? One could argue that The Times, which proudly bills itself as a family newspaper, is puritanical to a fault. But it also has to do with simple arithmetic: In 1983, there were few, if any, openly gay reporters on staff, and hardly anyone to challenge stereotypes about gay people. It would take until the next decade before the floodgates would open at The Times, and openly gay men and women would assume positions of leadership in the newsroom. But even that, more than two decades later, hasn’t stopped many gay people from debating what, exactly, Styles — and the rest of the Times — gets right about their lives.Read more:New York City, 1981-1983: 36 Months That Changed the CultureFour Geniuses, Gone to AIDS, as They Might Be TodayWhat New York Was Like in the Early ’80s — Hour by HourAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS