AdvertisementIn her new memoir, Trump’s ex-wife Ivana said he originally objected to the idea of naming their firstborn Donald Jr. because he worried the boy might be …A. “More of a Harold.”B. “A loser.”C. “Angry if I wind up having a huge tabloid sex scandal when he’s in high school and stuck with the same name.”On Halloween, Donald Jr. said he was going to take half his daughter’s candy to teach her …A. “About socialism.”B. “About calorie counting.”C. “About never trusting your parents.”Trump told some moderate Democrats that he wanted to include elimination of the estate tax in the big Republican tax bill because …A. “Eric and Ivanka started crying.”B. The bill was so tough on rich people, he wanted “just to give them something.”C. “This country was built by people who inherited massive amounts of wealth from their father.”Senate Finance Committee chairman Orrin Hatch rejected Democratic arguments that the tax bill was mainly for the wealthy, saying …A. “Trickledowntrickledowntrickledown, nyah nyah nyah.”B. “If I wanted to worry about children’s health care, I’d have become a doctor.”C. “I’ve been here working my whole stinking career for people who don’t have a chance.”The father of one of the U.C.L.A. basketball players arrested in China for shoplifting reacted noncommittally to Trump’s demand that he be thanked for the young men’s release. (“Who?”) The president’s response was …A. “Well, just so long as those kids are all right, I’m happy.”B. “Have you noticed how many difficult people are the fathers of sports stars?”C. “I should have left them in jail!”Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders explained that the story about Al Franken having groped a woman while he was a comedian was much worse than the fact that at least 16 women have accused the president of sexual harassment and sexual assault because …A. The president was a much bigger star.B. The president isn’t admitting anything.C. A photograph is worse than a tape recording.An Ohio Supreme Court justice and Democratic gubernatorial candidate attempted to put a halt to all the gossip about politicians’ sexual misbehavior by announcing that …A. He had “never touched a woman I wasn’t engaged to.”B. He “was sexually intimate with approximately 50 very attractive females.”C. He was undergoing preventive harassment counseling “just so you’ll know I’m serious about not messing up.”In what was probably the best-quoted defense of Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, the state auditor said there was nothing wrong with a man in his 30s pursuing teenage girls since …A. “Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter. They became parents of Jesus.”B. “I believe he was interested in instructing them on fiscal austerity.”C. “Roy was very immature for a 34-year-old.”Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross suffered a terrible blow when Forbes magazine announced it had discovered he …A. Isn’t really all that rich.B. Isn’t really turning 80 this month.C. Was attempting to acquire North Dakota with a leveraged buyout.Scott Pruitt, who’s head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said science …A. “Is something I know a lot about — I dissected a frog in high school.”B. “Is not something that should be just thrown about to try to dictate policy in Washington, D.C.”C. “Is O.K. if you like that sort of thing.”The acting secretary of homeland security said the government’s response to the hurricane disaster in Puerto Rico …A. “Could have been better if we’d had more time to think about it.”B. “Would have been different if we’d known it was part of America.”C. “Is really a good-news story.”Advertisement