AdvertisementSupported byRACE STORIESThe most compelling photographs of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. were neither idealized nor simplistic, but endeavored to portray his complexity and humanity.African-American newspapers and magazines routinely reported on the details of his life and activism through pictures, years before mainstream publications. And those mass media outlets — though at first circumspect and, in Dr. King’s final years, increasingly critical as he turned his attention to poverty, war and racism outside the South — nevertheless produced a visual narrative that helped transform a regional movement into a national one.If the news media sometimes vilified Dr. King, it also contributed to the mythic view of him as the charismatic leader “who single-handedly directed the course of the civil rights movement through the force of his oratory,” as the historian Clayborne Carson wrote of his distorted legacy. In that, photos became as powerful as words as Dr. King was transformed from a human being into a visual symbol of courage, fortitude, or benevolence: The stoic cleric posing for a mug shot after being arrested during the Montgomery bus boycott, or the consummate family man to whom white Americans could better relate.If he was for many white people the standard-bearer of a black America that was otherwise unknown to them, the news media’s mythic imagery rendered Dr. King enigmatic. He had become, in contexts both positive and negative, the pre-eminent but two-dimensional icon of a political struggle that involved thousands of organizers, activists and sympathizers. By contrast, the most compelling photographs of him were neither idealized nor simplistic, but endeavored to portray his complexity and humanity.James Karales’s candid picture of Dr. King at the kitchen table, talking with his young daughter Yolanda, for example, reminds us that the lives of black Americans, no matter how famous, were inevitably fraught. Disappointment registering on his face, he was explaining to the child, for the first time, the perils of segregation and why she could not visit a restricted amusement park. A photograph of the civil rights leader in intense conversation with President Lyndon B. Johnson affirmed that he was not simply an activist clergyman, but also a tough negotiator adept at politics.What is perhaps most extraordinary about Dr. King and photography is not how the medium defined him, but how skillfully he used it to define the story of civil rights. He was a visual tactician who, along with his advisers, understood the power of the camera to expose the brutality and injustice of segregation.The historic “Children’s Crusade” in Birmingham, Ala., in May 1963, for example, was largely organized for the camera. Dr. King and his strategists recognized the need for pictures that would demonstrate the depravity of Jim Crow segregation to a skeptical public. Anticipating a fierce response from Bull Connor, the city’s segregationist commissioner of public safety, and aware of the media’s hunger for provocative images, they planned a nonviolent demonstration of more than a thousand schoolchildren.“I always saw Martin Luther King Jr. as this incredible spiritual leader, who spoke in a way that inspired people in emotional tones,” said the photographer Steve Schapiro of his famous subject. “What you don’t realize is that people are human at the same time. You can be a leader and still have your own particular worries.”Race Stories is a continuing exploration of the relationship between race and photographic depictions of race by Maurice Berger. He is a research professor and chief curator at the Center for Art, Design and Visual Culture at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS