AdvertisementSupported byDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter, the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust,” is now one of them.A week ago, when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall, her frustrations with him, expressed frequently in her syndicated columns, turned into fury. “Congratulations, President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night, she referred to him as a “shallow, lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon, she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest, most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller, “¡Adios, America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle, predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of, and tribune for, some of his core supporters, including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me, Goldman Sachs.”Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say, perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign, it sounds like it’s divisive and angry, but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things, but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.“¡Adios, America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying, “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company, I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A, they know nothing about politics. B, as far as we know, to this moment, they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general, the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about, because, you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS