AdvertisementWASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.AdvertisementAdvertisementIn Twitter posts, speeches and interviews, President Trump has expressed variety in his tone and viewpoint, sometimes on the same issue.Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.Advertisement“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”The silence from Mr. Sessions could have a more pernicious effect on the staff than the blow to morale, the officials say. The condemnations send the message that people can be persecuted for holding political beliefs at odds with those of the president.During a speech in Norfolk, Va., last month, Mr. Sessions said that he loved the department and that the “vast majority” of employees were patriotic and hard-working. But he also implied that it might be necessary to weed out “political bias and favoritism” from investigations and prosecutions.“We don’t see criticism from Congress as a bad thing,” Mr. Sessions said. “When they learn of a problem and start asking questions, that is a good thing.”See More »Go to Home Page »