Advertisement• Mr. Comey has figured in some of the biggest news stories of the past year, drawing attention for his decision making during the campaign, his relationship with the White House and his sudden dismissal. Here’s a look at how we got here.Mr. Trump had shifting positions on Mr. Comey during the campaign — usually in connection to how the director appeared to be handling the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.AdvertisementAdvertisementPresident Trump often publicly pushed back against the now-fired director of the F.B.I., James Comey, including over Hillary Clinton’s emails and Russia links. Here’s a closer look.This graphic will help you keep them straight:In addition to a Justice Department investigation, there are several congressional inquiries into potential ties between President Trump’s associates and Russia.If it looks as if Mr. Comey is comfortable being publicly grilled by a panel of senators, that’s because he has done it a lot. And he has a reputation for making newsworthy statements during such hearings — when he wants to.AdvertisementThe request by the president to close the Flynn investigation has raised questions of obstruction of justice, which are likely to be a topic of discussion on Thursday.Here’s the announcement from the White House about the termination. It includes the memorandum that Mr. Rosenstein compiled with his reasoning, the letter to Mr. Trump from Mr. Sessions recommending the termination, and Mr. Trump’s letter to Mr. Comey.Read the letter President Trump sent the F.B.I. director about his firing.“I just fired the head of the F.B.I.,” Mr. Trump said. “He was crazy, a real nut job.”The former director of the F.B.I. sent this letter on Wednesday to bureau staff, a day after he was fired by President Trump.Here’s a timeline of how the events unfolded:President Trump fired F.B.I. Director James B. Comey after asking him to announce that he was not personally under investigation. The president later told Russian officials that firing Mr. Comey had taken the pressure off.And here are some of the contradictory statements that the White House made about the dismissal:The Trump administration has offered conflicting answers about how and why the F.B.I. director, James Comey, was fired.Here are some other names to brush up on for Thursday:AdvertisementIn February, Michael T. Flynn stepped down as national security adviser amid a scandal surrounding his contacts with Russia before President Trump took office.See More »Go to Home Page »