AdvertisementSupported byRetro ReportBut his appeal for many white working-class men and women extended beyond Alabama’s borders and even beyond matters of race. When he ran for president — briefly in 1964, more substantially in 1968, 1972 and 1976 — he found ready support among white ethnic groups in the industrial Midwest, which even then were wilting economically as factories closed and populations migrated south and west. Perhaps not coincidentally, it is the very region that gave Mr. Trump his surprising triumph in 2016.The two men fired up crowds in similar fashion. Both appealed to “forgotten” Americans, stoking fear and loathing of “the other” — blacks in Mr. Wallace’s case, immigrants in Mr. Trump’s (though he also has had race cards up his sleeve, as with his embrace of “birtherism” to discredit President Barack Obama). The message from both was that a nefarious other, enabled by a bumbling government, was stealing work and wealth from upright Americans.The similarities between then and now are unmistakable.Mr. Wallace demonized the federal government as an oppressor trampling on states’ rights. Mr. Trump and his ardent supporters denounce Washington as “the swamp” and its bureaucracy as a malevolent “deep state.” Mr. Wallace told listeners in 1968 that they had been treated like “a doormat long enough.” Mr. Trump said when he declared his candidacy that the United States had become “a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.”Mr. Wallace sneered at the press, often singling out The Times for special scorn. Mr. Trump can hardly pass up a Twitter opportunity to rail about “fake news,” especially in the “failing” Times. He has gone so far as to call the news media in general an “enemy of the American people.”In speeches, both took delight in belittling people. Mr. Wallace made rhetorical pin cushions of “pointy-head college professors who can’t even park a bicycle straight.” At one of his rallies, he called out to a longhaired male protester, “Oh, I thought you were a she.” Mr. Trump has yet to meet a demeaning adjective he doesn’t like, with his “Crooked Hillary,” “Lyin’ Ted,” “Liddle Bob Corker” and other insults.Both exhorted audiences to get physically rough with hecklers. Both called for certain malefactors to be put to death. “Bam, shoot ’em dead on the spot!” Mr. Wallace said in 1968, referring to those rioting in America’s cities. Last month, Mr. Trump said drug dealers should be executed. The two men even had similar speech mannerisms, often saying the exact same sentence twice in rapid succession.For a time, a George Wallace presidency was not an outlandish notion. He ran well on the American Independent Party ticket in 1968, capturing 13.5 percent of the popular vote and the 45 electoral votes of five southern states — Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana and Mississippi — plus a “faithless elector” in North Carolina, a state won by Richard M. Nixon.Mr. Wallace had one more presidential race in him, in 1976, but he quickly faded. Six years later, he was elected Alabama governor for a fourth time. But long before then, he cast himself as a changed, even chastened, man on race relations.Even so, questions linger about the genuineness of his personal road to Damascus. After all, as time passed, he needed to appeal to Alabama’s expanding black electorate if he hoped for political survival. “Only the good Lord knows whether or not he was sincere,” Mr. Ayres said.But at least Mr. Wallace, once a great divider, had the capacity to say “I’m sorry.” For all their oratorical similarities, that is where he and Mr. Trump notably diverge. “I’m sorry.” Those are two words conspicuously missing from the Trump lexicon.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS