Advertisement“Vietnam.” The word comes camouflaged in music. Rock ’n’ roll, soul, pop and country. For those who watched the war unfold on the evening news, the music of Vietnam blurred with the sounds rising from the streets of America during a time of momentous challenge and change. For those born after the last helicopters sank beneath the waves of the South China Sea, movies, documentaries and TV shows have repeatedly used music as a sonic background for depicting Vietnam as a tug of war between pro-war hawks and pro-peace doves.If you weren’t there, it’s possible to imagine this as so much postproduction editing, imposing a relationship between the sounds and the experience of the war. It can all feel a bit trite. Except — it’s true.More than any other American war, Vietnam had a soundtrack, and you listened to it whether you were marching in the jungle or in the streets. For the men and women like me who served in Southeast Asia, music was what inexorably linked us to “my generation.” We sang along to the Beatles, Nancy Sinatra, Marty Robbins and the Temptations before we went to war, and we listened to them after we came back home.AdvertisementAnd once we returned home, music became essential to our healing.Historians of the ’60s have recognized the importance of music as a lens for understanding movements, attitudes and opinions. For Vietnam veterans and those who listen to their stories, the iconic music of the 1960s and early ’70s provides access to a truer, deeper story of what Vietnam meant, and continues to mean.AdvertisementWith the crucial exception of combat, music was ubiquitous in Vietnam, reaching soldiers via albums, cassettes and tapes of radio shows sent from home; on the Armed Forces Vietnam Network, featuring songs from stateside Top 40 stations; and on the legendary, if short-lived, underground broadcasts of Radio First Termer, a pirate station operated out of Saigon. Soldiers played it in their hooches on top-of-the-line tape decks they’d purchase cheap at the PX or via mail order from Japan; they listened to it over headphones in helicopters and planes.This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementAlthough the pro-war “hawks” who flooded him with hate mail — he still receives it — were unaware of the crucial fact that Joe McDonald was a Navy veteran, one who’d realized that, as he put it, “all military experience, all combat experience universally is the same — not good/bad, moral/immoral. I believe if we had the music of all these different armies, all the infantries everywhere, you’d have the same attitude expressed within their songs that we expressed in ours.”Returning to the Bay Area after his discharge from the Navy, Joe threw himself into the growing counterculture. In the summer of 1965 he wrote the song that even today is an anthem of the antiwar movement, yet holds a special resonance for Vietnam veterans, a point we heard again and again from the hundreds of Vietnam veterans we’ve interviewed.“The song was irreverent but not political,” Joe explained. “It blames leaders and parents, not soldiers. It’s not a pacifist song; it’s a soldier’s song.” The most radical line in the song, he added, “is, ‘Be the first one on your block to have your boy come home in a box.’ It’s military humor that only a soldier could get away with. It’s a soldier’s song from a soldier’s background and point of view. It comes out of a tradition of G.I. humor in which people can bitch in a way that will not get them in trouble and that also keeps them from insanity that can be experienced during war.”As the war ground on and the casualties mounted, music became even more essential for troops and veterans struggling to express their feelings and understand the politics of the war, and politics in general. The war was coming to an end, and those of us still there, and the veterans who were already back home, understood that it would be music that helped us reintegrate into civilian life. As Michael Kramer observes in “The Republic of Rock,” the music of the 1960s and early ’70s gave the generation “a sonic framework for thinking, feeling, discussing and dancing out the vexing problems of democratic togetherness and individual liberation.”If you were fortunate enough to return home from Vietnam, music echoed through those secret places where you stored memories, including some you never shared with your parents, spouse or children for decades. Music was the key to survival and a path to healing, the center of a human story that’s too often lost in the haze of politics and myth that surrounds Vietnam.See More »Go to Home Page »