AdvertisementSupported byWatchingDear Watchers,Playoff baseball has been eating into my typical schedule — which honestly is wall-to-wall TV viewing during all my conscious hours. (Just kidding. Sometimes I’m in the shower.) This winnowing process has put ABC’s “Designated Survivor,” the Kiefer Sutherland political thriller, on the “hm, maybe later” list. But NBC’s “The Good Place,” the candy-colored Kristen Bell and Ted Danson afterlife comedy, has secured its spot in my weekly rotation.Pumpkin spice your week, friends. Don’t let anyone stop you.‘Jane the Virgin,’ 9 p.m., The CWOh, thank God, “Jane the Virgin” is finally back. The show’s third season picks up right where Season 2 left off and will be tough for new viewers to fully grasp. Given that “Jane” is one of the best shows on TV, though, I heartily encourage you to get on board. And to bring tissues when you do. This is a crying show.‘30 for 30: Phi Slama Jama,’ 8 p.m., ESPNThe latest “30 for 30” documentary covers the University of Houston’s hot streak in the early ’80s, but unlike lots of other installments in the anthology series, or sports documentaries in general, “Phi Slama Jama” is about losing the big game.There’s a poignant sequence where we see several players in the present day rewatch game footage of their young selves in what, for some, remains the highest-profile game of their basketball careers. The doc also tries to track down Benny Anders, a star from the team who has basically vanished from public life.As always, the vintage b-roll and jazzy montages fit right into the pleasure receptors in one’s brain, but the real intrigue in “Slama” is its approach to the flip side of all the excitement and enthusiasm.‘Chance,’ Hulu (New Series, Two-Episode Premiere)If there’s a more instantly depressing opening sequence in recent TV history than that of “Chance,” I can’t think of it. The first few moments of find Hugh Laurie, here playing a San Francisco-based “referring neuropsychiatrist,” in voice-over explaining the miserable fates of several of his patients.The show stays just as morose through its first two episodes, during which it also becomes a murder mystery and an attempted noir thriller. Gretchen Mol plays his new patient, who presents with possible dissociative identity disorder. So many sad glances, so many sad establishing shots. Look at the sad, sad Golden Gate Sad. Laurie’s character is named Dr. Eldon Chance, which made me roll my eyes so hard I died. If you want to watch Hugh Laurie play an eponymous doctor with deep emotional wounds, go ahead and rewatch “House.”‘Younger,’ 10 p.m., TV LandIn every good rom-com, there comes a moment when the men wear tuxedos. Tuxedos change things! Tonight’s “Younger” includes some tuxedo time at the opera. The show is convinced that it has a love triangle, with Liza (Sutton Foster) somehow “torn” between her hunky boss, Charles (Peter Hermann), and her dingaling tattoo-artist boyfriend, Josh (Nico Tortorella). This shouldn’t be a contest at all, and the show needs to move past it, ASAP. Maybe these tuxedos can help.‘The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let’s Do the Time Warp Again,’ 8 p.m., FoxTry to picture who exactly is shivering with anticip … ation for this remake. I have no idea who possibly could be. It’s not that you can’t make a better version of “Rocky Horror” — one certainly could. But what would a “good” remake of “R.H.P.S.” even mean? Part of the point of “Rocky Horror” is its production, values the lack of polish. The charisma bursts out of the shabbiness.Unlike several other recent TV musicals, this glossy revival is not live, which adds another layer of prim detachment. This is exacerbated by a framing mechanism where we occasionally see a movie theater crowd doing the classic audience participation gags (like pulling out newspapers during the rainstorm). The vocal performances are fine, although some of the arrangements feel a little sterile, especially “Eddie.”“Don’t dream it; be it,” “Rocky Horror” tells us. In this case, maybe leaving things in the dream realm would have been acceptable.Is “Shows You Should Watch While Working Out” an established genre? If so, what are some good shows in this category?I need something to watch to take my mind off the inherent boredom of being on a treadmill, elliptical, etc. Preferably something that has an action-oriented plot, attractive people and high emotion, all of which are good motivators to keep the endorphins going.“Quantico” and “Blindspot” were my go-tos for this until I realized they were both dumber than my treadmill. — ScottDear Scott,I’m pretty sure this is what superhero TV shows are designed for — and both Netflix and The CW have more than a few. If watching a few episodes of “Arrow” doesn’t make you want to work out harder, perhaps nothing will. Those arms! Those abs! Those arrows! “Arrow” starts a little slow but picks up eventually, and Season 2 in particular is big and exciting. The show runs out of juice around Season 4, but there’s plenty more superhero fare to choose from.If you want more punching and misery, there’s “Daredevil,” whose story is not great, but whose fight sequences are wonderful. If you want more verve and unintentional goofiness, try “The Flash.”If you want to see a woman achieve things, try “Supergirl.” If you want an ensemble of heroes, try “Legends of Tomorrow.” If you want no actual superheroes but just a bunch of sad cops, try “Gotham.” (Just kidding! Don’t bother with “Gotham.”) “Jessica Jones” and “Luke Cage” are a significantly more serious and don’t strike me as gym shows, but your treadmill mileage might vary from mine.If you work out at home, perhaps “Spartacus” will fit the bill. It’s a swords-and-sandals show with a brain, but also a ton of nudity, so it’s not appropriate to watch in public.Much safer for public consumption are “Alias” and “Chuck,” two similar action shows about regular-seeming white people (Jennifer Garner and Zachary Levi) who are actually secret agents involved in dangerous espionage. They both experience substantial heartache, both in and out of their spying organizations. “Alias” has more explosions, and “Chuck” has more jokes.I think you might actually do best with something completely different, though. If you were drawn to shows like “Quantico” and “Blindspot,” I think you’re mistaking an appetite for action with an appetite for splashiness. Consider a soap. If you want something violent and plot-driven, “Revenge” is a rich-people saga about an assassin. So many tuxedos gave their lives for this show. R.I.P., all those tuxedos.Less violent but more enraging? Try “The Affair.” There’s no action, really, in the sense of chases or gunplay or anything. But everyone is a frustrating combination of attractive, lousy-as-a-human and stupid. My god, are they stupid. That sensation of “get a grip, you vile ding-dongs who don’t deserve wealth” almost feels like running.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementWatchingDear Watchers,Playoff baseball has been eating into my typical schedule — which honestly is wall-to-wall TV viewing during all my conscious hours. (Just kidding. Sometimes I’m in the shower.) This winnowing process has put ABC’s “Designated Survivor,” the Kiefer Sutherland political thriller, on the “hm, maybe later” list. But NBC’s “The Good Place,” the candy-colored Kristen Bell and Ted Danson afterlife comedy, has secured its spot in my weekly rotation.Pumpkin spice your week, friends. Don’t let anyone stop you.‘Jane the Virgin,’ 9 p.m., The CWOh, thank God, “Jane the Virgin” is finally back. The show’s third season picks up right where Season 2 left off and will be tough for new viewers to fully grasp. Given that “Jane” is one of the best shows on TV, though, I heartily encourage you to get on board. And to bring tissues when you do. This is a crying show.Advertisement‘30 for 30: Phi Slama Jama,’ 8 p.m., ESPNThe latest “30 for 30” documentary covers the University of Houston’s hot streak in the early ’80s, but unlike lots of other installments in the anthology series, or sports documentaries in general, “Phi Slama Jama” is about losing the big game.AdvertisementThere’s a poignant sequence where we see several players in the present day rewatch game footage of their young selves in what, for some, remains the highest-profile game of their basketball careers. The doc also tries to track down Benny Anders, a star from the team who has basically vanished from public life.As always, the vintage b-roll and jazzy montages fit right into the pleasure receptors in one’s brain, but the real intrigue in “Slama” is its approach to the flip side of all the excitement and enthusiasm.‘Chance,’ Hulu (New Series, Two-Episode Premiere)If there’s a more instantly depressing opening sequence in recent TV history than that of “Chance,” I can’t think of it. The first few moments of find Hugh Laurie, here playing a San Francisco-based “referring neuropsychiatrist,” in voice-over explaining the miserable fates of several of his patients.The show stays just as morose through its first two episodes, during which it also becomes a murder mystery and an attempted noir thriller. Gretchen Mol plays his new patient, who presents with possible dissociative identity disorder. So many sad glances, so many sad establishing shots. Look at the sad, sad Golden Gate Sad. Laurie’s character is named Dr. Eldon Chance, which made me roll my eyes so hard I died. If you want to watch Hugh Laurie play an eponymous doctor with deep emotional wounds, go ahead and rewatch “House.”‘Younger,’ 10 p.m., TV LandIn every good rom-com, there comes a moment when the men wear tuxedos. Tuxedos change things! Tonight’s “Younger” includes some tuxedo time at the opera. The show is convinced that it has a love triangle, with Liza (Sutton Foster) somehow “torn” between her hunky boss, Charles (Peter Hermann), and her dingaling tattoo-artist boyfriend, Josh (Nico Tortorella). This shouldn’t be a contest at all, and the show needs to move past it, ASAP. Maybe these tuxedos can help.‘The Rocky Horror Picture Show: Let’s Do the Time Warp Again,’ 8 p.m., FoxTry to picture who exactly is shivering with anticip … ation for this remake. I have no idea who possibly could be. It’s not that you can’t make a better version of “Rocky Horror” — one certainly could. But what would a “good” remake of “R.H.P.S.” even mean? Part of the point of “Rocky Horror” is its production, values the lack of polish. The charisma bursts out of the shabbiness.The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Unlike several other recent TV musicals, this glossy revival is not live, which adds another layer of prim detachment. This is exacerbated by a framing mechanism where we occasionally see a movie theater crowd doing the classic audience participation gags (like pulling out newspapers during the rainstorm). The vocal performances are fine, although some of the arrangements feel a little sterile, especially “Eddie.”Advertisement“Don’t dream it; be it,” “Rocky Horror” tells us. In this case, maybe leaving things in the dream realm would have been acceptable.Is “Shows You Should Watch While Working Out” an established genre? If so, what are some good shows in this category?I need something to watch to take my mind off the inherent boredom of being on a treadmill, elliptical, etc. Preferably something that has an action-oriented plot, attractive people and high emotion, all of which are good motivators to keep the endorphins going.“Quantico” and “Blindspot” were my go-tos for this until I realized they were both dumber than my treadmill. — ScottDear Scott,I’m pretty sure this is what superhero TV shows are designed for — and both Netflix and The CW have more than a few. If watching a few episodes of “Arrow” doesn’t make you want to work out harder, perhaps nothing will. Those arms! Those abs! Those arrows! “Arrow” starts a little slow but picks up eventually, and Season 2 in particular is big and exciting. The show runs out of juice around Season 4, but there’s plenty more superhero fare to choose from.If you want more punching and misery, there’s “Daredevil,” whose story is not great, but whose fight sequences are wonderful. If you want more verve and unintentional goofiness, try “The Flash.”If you want to see a woman achieve things, try “Supergirl.” If you want an ensemble of heroes, try “Legends of Tomorrow.” If you want no actual superheroes but just a bunch of sad cops, try “Gotham.” (Just kidding! Don’t bother with “Gotham.”) “Jessica Jones” and “Luke Cage” are a significantly more serious and don’t strike me as gym shows, but your treadmill mileage might vary from mine.AdvertisementIf you work out at home, perhaps “Spartacus” will fit the bill. It’s a swords-and-sandals show with a brain, but also a ton of nudity, so it’s not appropriate to watch in public.Much safer for public consumption are “Alias” and “Chuck,” two similar action shows about regular-seeming white people (Jennifer Garner and Zachary Levi) who are actually secret agents involved in dangerous espionage. They both experience substantial heartache, both in and out of their spying organizations. “Alias” has more explosions, and “Chuck” has more jokes.I think you might actually do best with something completely different, though. If you were drawn to shows like “Quantico” and “Blindspot,” I think you’re mistaking an appetite for action with an appetite for splashiness. Consider a soap. If you want something violent and plot-driven, “Revenge” is a rich-people saga about an assassin. So many tuxedos gave their lives for this show. R.I.P., all those tuxedos.Less violent but more enraging? Try “The Affair.” There’s no action, really, in the sense of chases or gunplay or anything. But everyone is a frustrating combination of attractive, lousy-as-a-human and stupid. My god, are they stupid. That sensation of “get a grip, you vile ding-dongs who don’t deserve wealth” almost feels like running.Go to Home Page »