AdvertisementIf you want to know just how big “Star Wars” was in 1977, consider the story of the empty toy box.A roundup of details about the new “Star Wars” film, which picks up 30 years after the events of “Return of the Jedi.”“Star Wars” memories from Sam Rockwell, Sarah Vowell, Ridley Scott, Saoirse Ronan and Senator Ted Cruz, among others.Mr. Lucas always knew his audience. In April 1977, the month before “Star Wars” opened, American Film magazine ran an interview in which he talked about who he wanted to reach. “Rather than do some angry, socially relevant film,” he said, “I realized that there was another relevance that is even more important — dreams and fantasies, getting children to believe there is more to life than garbage and killing and all that real stuff like stealing hubcaps — that you could still sit and dream about exotic lands and strange creatures.” His influences were a postmodern grab bag, from samurai films to “John Carter of Mars.” (Years later, Joseph Campbell was worked into the conversation, too.) Crucially, Mr. Lucas said, “I wanted to make a children’s movie, to go the Disney route.”AdvertisementAmid the gush, there were doubts. In The Village Voice, Molly Haskell wrote, “what I find mildly depressing about ‘Star Wars’ is that it seems to address itself, like more and more television programming, to a ‘family market’ defined by its prepubescent age level, somewhere between 10 and 14.” She added, “Lucas bridges the generation gap simply by providing a one-way ticket back to adolescence.” The accusation that the film infantilizes its audience stuck. In 1996, the critic David Thomson lamented the immaturity of the contemporary movie scene that he traced to “Jaws” and “Star Wars.” “I fear the medium has sunk beyond anything we dreamed of, leaving us stranded, a race of dreamers,” he wrote. “This is something like the loss of feeling, and I blame Spielberg and Lucas.”AdvertisementThe charge that these two “wonder kids,” as Mr. Thomson called them, effectively destroyed the movies and perhaps even our love for them has been repeated so often that it became a near-article of faith in some cinephile quarters. It’s a story that begins in the mid-1960s when the big studios were gasping their last breath, having never recovered from the introduction of television or the government-forced sale of their theaters. Run by doddering old men who catastrophically banked on pricey flops like “Doctor Dolittle,” the studios were rescued by mostly young, white, male executives and auteurs who, beginning in 1967 with “Bonnie and Clyde,” shook up the industry and country with exciting images and a sense of real life that, while indebted to European art cinema, was essentially American.The release of “Jaws” in 1975 and “Star Wars” two years later has often been blamed for bringing an end to these creative good times, paving the way for the blockbuster bloat and sequel spectacle that now defines mainstream cinema and, for some, transforming Mr. Lucas from a New Hollywood Anakin Skywalker into the Darth Vader of American cinema. Like “Star Wars,” this story is as simple as an old B-movie shootout, except one in which the good guys (the likes of Hal Ashby and Robert Towne) lose to the bad (Mr. Lucas, Steven Spielberg and the suits).That doesn’t mean there’s not some truth in the tale, only that it’s complicated. The late 1960s and early ’70s had their screen glories, but it’s an era that was as dominated by “The Jungle Book” and “The Trial of Billy Jack” as by “The Graduate” and “Chinatown.” And even as critics and audiences embraced bold visions on screen, some of the most significant shifts took place in boardrooms between 1966 and ’69, when four of the seven Hollywood studios were bought by non-media conglomerates that, as the film historian Tom Schatz has suggested, were the antecedents to the media giants of today. These conglomerates allowed the studios to keep the machine going, and they also laid the foundation of the global entertainment industry as it now exists.When “Jaws” opened amid a blizzard of advertising in the summer of 1975 in 400 or so theaters, a large number at the time, it set the course for the contemporary blockbuster. And then “Star Wars” hit. Fox was banking on “Star Wars” but didn’t think it would be especially big, which may be why it made one of the worst deals in industry history. Burned by his experience with Universal while making “American Graffiti,” Mr. Lucas demanded — and got — extraordinary control over “Star Wars.” By the time his negotiations with Fox were over, he owned the rights to its sequels and the merchandising, though the studio did receive a cut of every Darth Vader mask and Chewy figurine. (Fox has retained the distribution rights to the first film, now often known as “Episode IV — A New Hope,” in perpetuity.)AdvertisementSee More »Go to Home Page »