AdvertisementSupported byMr. Jordan plays a talented light-heavyweight whose rapid ascent in the sport is fueled by an identity crisis. Even his name is in question. The love child of Apollo Creed, Rocky’s erstwhile nemesis and eventual best friend, the young man is unsure whether to embrace or spurn the legacy of a father he never knew. He calls himself Adonis (or sometimes Donnie) Johnson, and his background is a complicated tangle of deprivation and privilege. He grew up in foster homes and juvenile detention centers before being adopted by Apollo’s widow, Mary Anne (Phylicia Rashad), who raised him in Los Angeles opulence and kept him away from the boxing ring.A look at what Times critics had to say about the original “Rocky” (1976), and the new “Creed,” the latest entry in the franchise.“Rocky” was the story of a Great White Hope, and also a fable for an era of racial backlash. Apollo Creed, played by Carl Weathers, was the heavy in that movie, and Rocky was the noble underdog. Later, they set aside their differences and faced a common Soviet enemy as the series turned its attention to Cold War geopolitics. By then, Apollo was the sidekick and the sacrificial friend, an injustice that “Creed,” by its very title, seeks to redress.The movie is also a Hollywood rarity: a boxing movie with a black hero. It is bizarre — though hardly surprising — that a sport dominated for decades by African-American and Latino athletes looks more like ice hockey on screen. And “Creed,” like “Fruitvale Station,” embeds its drama in the perils and pleasures of black life in America. Adonis is a complex character with a complex fate. He is at once a rich kid and a street kid, the proud carrier of an illustrious heritage and an invisible man.His relationship with Rocky is complicated, too. The older fighter is a mentor and a father figure, to be sure, but he also needs someone to take care of him, especially when illness adds a melodramatic twist to the plot. Rocky has reconciled himself to loss. The people he loved — Paulie, Mickey, Creed and Adrian — are all gone.It’s too simple to say that Adonis teaches him to care again. One of the most surprising things about “Creed” is how gentle and easygoing it is, notwithstanding the effective brutality of the fight scenes. It is a pleasure to watch Mr. Stallone amble through a movie with nothing much to prove. He is at his best when he works comfortably within his limitations as an actor. Mr. Jordan’s limitations, in contrast, have yet to be discovered. With every role, he seems to delight in the unfolding of his talent, and to pass his excitement along to the audience.Which partly explains the applause that is likely to echo through multiplexes this Thanksgiving. “Creed” is a dandy piece of entertainment, soothingly old-fashioned and bracingly up-to-date. The punches fly, the music soars (hip-hop along with Ludwig Goransson’s variations on the old Bill Conti brass) and the ground is prepared for “Creed II.” We’ll see how that goes. But for now it is sweet to have this lesson in the importance of fast footwork, brute power and brotherly love.“Creed” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). (Literal) blood, (metaphorical) guts and (discreet) sex. Running time: 2 hours 13 minutes.Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS