AdvertisementLong before we get to the title card in “The Big Short,” the rollicking caper documenting the 2008 housing and banking crisis, we see how the nation arrived at the brink — with nary a dollar sign or a balance sheet in sight. Instead, the co-writer and director, Adam McKay, gives audiences a timeline of Wall Street from the raunchy ’70s on. There are glimpses of nudity and of the products and personalities that obsessed Americans over the years, when they might otherwise have tuned in to an impending economic meltdown: Christie Brinkley, “Top Gun,” the first iMac, “South Park.” Faced with a potentially stultifying subject, Mr. McKay offers an unlikely comic stroll through financial malfeasance.“Adam’s sense of outrage is infectious, but his anger doesn’t preclude his ability to be funny about it,” said Steve Carell, who plays a scrupulous hedge fund boss in the movie and who has known Mr. McKay since their days as improvisers in Chicago the 1990s. “He had a much finer political acumen than most people at Second City had at that time,” Mr. Carell said, “coupled with an absurdist sense of humor. So the fact that he took this movie didn’t surprise me at all. It seems like a perfect fit.”AdvertisementMr. Lewis, whose books “Moneyball” and “The Blind Side” were turned into Oscar-nominated movies, and who deemed “The Big Short” probably the hardest to translate to the screen, went further. “The only reason it got made was that he got obsessed,” he said.AdvertisementAdam McKay narrates a sequence from “The Big Short.”Mr. McKay, having loved the book, pitched himself as the writer-director in 2014, said Dede Gardner, a co-president of Plan B. “I immediately thought, this is what has been elusive about this adaptation: It remained inside a serious space,” she recalled. “I didn’t know how to unpack the terminology; I didn’t know how to make finance and banking cinematic. The minute he called, I thought, that’s exactly right — you need someone who is so acute and so confident in their assessment of what is absurd in this world, to step up the absurdity first, and in so doing get at the heart of it.” (Plan B and Mr. Pitt were also behind “Moneyball,” and they have had success with other complex fare, like “12 Years a Slave.”)Among Mr. McKay’s immediate ideas was to have his characters talk to the camera, telling the audience what really happened and what had been slightly dressed up for the screen. He said he wanted the movie to be straightforward. “We’re going to explain everything cleanly,” he said. “It’s going to seem complicated, you’re going to feel dumb, but the truth is, it’s not that hard.”Still, whether these offbeat storytelling choices would work “was the big question on set,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AdvertisementMr. McKay countered: “We actually did create a whole Brick back story. Our theory was that he just one day wandered onto a plane and ended up in San Diego, and walked in to the news station and just said, ‘I like the weather. It’s sunny out.’”For the look of “The Big Short,” Mr. McKay branched out from his comedy team, bringing in Barry Ackroyd (“The Hurt Locker,” “Captain Phillips”) as the cinematographer — because “I wanted Wall Street to be messy and textural and sweaty,” he said — and Hank Corwin, best known for his work with Terrence Malick, to edit.Mr. Corwin said he was “bewildered” to get the call from Mr. McKay. “I told him, I’m not a comedy guy. And he said, ‘I’ve got it covered.’”Mr. Corwin worked on Mr. Malick’s “The Tree of Life,” which includes a sequence about the origins of the universe. “This actually was more complicated,” he said.“You have to feel the world,” he added. “What were we thinking about? I didn’t see the collapse coming. What was I busy with? What were we all busy with?”Advertisement“The Big Short” may at least alter the course of Mr. McKay’s career, or turn audiences on to his brand of serious-minded humor. He grew most excited discussing the hurdles for banking regulatory reform and his belief that “the good news is, corruption never works.” But he laughed the most recalling an old collegiate habit. “I’m 47 years old, and if you told me there’s a way to do crank phone calls, where we could block the number and still call, I would do crank phone calls for two hours,” he said. “It’ll always be my favorite stuff.”See More »Go to Home Page »