A cinematic history of going airborne.At 10:35 on the morning of Dec. 17, 1903, on the sand dunes of Kitty Hawk, N.C. ... Do I need to finish the sentence?The Korona had a fast-enough shutter and a sensitive-enough plate to capture rapid movement in a frame. Daniels, a first-time photographer, was following, whether he knew it or not, in the footsteps of Gaspard-Félix Tournachon, known to his public and to posterity as Nadar, the French artist and entrepreneur who had the brilliant idea, a half-century before the miracle at Kitty Hawk, of going up in a hot-air balloon with a camera. Our vision of the world — quite literally, our sense that the surface of this planet can be flown over and surveyed from above — owes as much to Nadar as our ability to circumnavigate it owes to Orville and Wilbur Wright.Nadar died in 1910, having anticipated and then lived to witness the birth of motion pictures, which custom has fixed in 1895. The Wright Flyer arrived on the scene early in the new century, in time to give the nascent art of movies (invented in America by Thomas Edison) one of its great subjects. And for more than a century since, the visions of cinema and the experience of flight have worked together in ways both obvious and mysterious. Movie cameras and airplanes are the twin manifestations of ancient human desires that dwelled, for most of our existence as a species, in myth and fantasy. Our ancestors made likenesses of everything under the sun in various media, to bridge the strange chasm between thing and idea. They conjured legends of bird-gods and parables in which the urge to take wing was a symbol of aspiration and of hubris.AdvertisementWhat if we could counterfeit reality so completely that the representation would partake of the essence of the original, closing the gap between the world and our imagination of it? What if we could fly? The two dreams link up almost effortlessly, and the technologies of their realization complement each other. The first movie to win a Best Picture Oscar was ‘‘Wings.’’ The most recent was ‘‘Birdman.’’ The camera has learned not only to record flight but also to replicate its rhythms and feelings — to swoop and soar, to blast off and fall to earth, to hover over rooftops and leap tall buildings in a single bound.AdvertisementWhen a dream comes true, though, it touches down amid the dross of ordinary life. Moving pictures and flying machines became less marvelous as they became ubiquitous. We take them for granted, and have even come to resent them.The camerawork is similarly primitive and ingenious. No fast cuts, no dollies or cranes to mimic and counterpoint the movement of the objects within the frame. The little window in your laptop screen opens on a charmingly and almost absurdly simpler time, a collection of antique moments that is also a foreshadowing of the present.AdvertisementDid you see ‘‘Furious 7’’? Not technically a flight picture, but an automotive movie that extends the highway into the clouds. Do you remember when the cars parachuted out of the belly of the transport plane and hit the mountain running at full speed? Or when the red sports coupe — was Vin Diesel driving? Michelle Rodriguez? — went zooming around inside the big glass tower in Abu Dhabi and then smashed through the window and sailed over to the other tower and kept going? Oh, man! Pure adrenaline. And pure slapstick sublimity. How did they do that? How did they even think of it?The fun, however, has always cast a shadow. The ‘‘Furious 7’’ skyscraper sequence, thrilling though it is, can’t help evoking the Sept. 11 attacks. An instant cliché after the planes hit the twin towers was ‘‘It was like something out of a movie.’’ In the years since, movies have fought to reclaim the imagination of disaster as their special purview and to restore the innocent anarchy of impact, velocity and flight. We want the thrill without the danger. But the danger is there, alongside the liberation. These machines — airplanes and movie cameras — bring terror along with wonder.It was Hollywood that would develop a practical aesthetic link between film and aviation, most famously in ‘‘Wings,’’ the inaugural Oscar winner (in 1929) and a blockbuster of the pre-talkie era. An elaborate and expensive production, filmed on location around a San Antonio military base and directed by William Wellman, a decorated former fighter pilot, ‘‘Wings’’ was perhaps more admired for its technical innovation than for its rather conventional story. In that regard, it was an early example of what has become a sturdy Hollywood genre: the effects-driven blockbuster.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For decades, aviation pictures like ‘‘Wings,’’ ‘‘Devil Dogs of the Air’’ and, for the less military-minded, John Ford’s ‘‘Air Mail,’’ were Hollywood staples. The genre fed off the public’s interest in the real-life exploits of Charles Lindbergh, Amelia Earhart and other celebrity pilots. When the United States entered World War II, the military commissioned Ford and other prominent directors — notably Frank Capra, William Wyler, George Stevens and John Huston — to bring carefully packaged images of the fighting into American movie theaters. In ‘‘Five Came Back,’’ his detailed chronicle of these five wartime auteurs, the journalist Mark Harris notes that before long, ‘‘generic sops to patriotism and adroit use of newsreel footage were no longer enough to stir a jaded public or to make a war documentary worth showing in theaters. Moviegoers didn’t want the story behind the war — they wanted the war, brought home in pictures they couldn’t see anywhere else.’’To this end, Wyler and his crew embedded (as we might now say) with the 91st Bomb Group. They took their 16-millimeter cameras on bombing runs, in Harris’s words ‘‘lying flat along the belly of the B-17 so they could shoot footage through the ball turret, the position on the plane’s underside that allowed a gunner to fire in all directions.’’ Wyler, who won his first Oscar for ‘‘Mrs. Miniver’’ while overseas, would later be awarded an Air Medal for participating in five sorties and suffer severe damage to his hearing on a subsequent assignment in Italy. The results of his time with the 91st Bomb Group were assembled into a short documen­tary called ‘‘Memphis Belle’’ (1944), which James Agee praised for its immediacy.Advertisement‘‘I could not guess which shots were re-enacted and which were straight records,’’ Agee confessed, and postwar movies would often aspire to induce precisely this confusion. Agee had an ethical commitment to documentary, and a temperamental suspicion of artifice, and during the war his insistence on the literal, visceral truth reflected the biases of the filmmakers themselves, who often battled Army censors over how much unvarnished reality they could show. But the line between truth and trickery is not always so clear. When the fighting stopped, filmmakers used some of the documentary techniques tested in combat to blur it in new ways, in the service of sensation rather than home-front morale.Nowadays, we’ve turned Agee’s moral puzzlement into a formalist game. The famous ‘‘Ride of the Valkyries’’ sequence in Francis Ford Coppola’s ‘‘Apocalypse Now’’ — the helicopter assault, led by Robert Duvall’s sociopathic Lieutenant Colonel Kilgore, on a Vietnamese hamlet — partakes of some of the immediacy of documentary. Those are actual helicopters in literal space, and the flames are real, too. And so was Coppola’s war, even if the film is a pure fantasia rather than a factual record. The X-wing fighter attack on the Death Star in the movie we now call ‘‘Star Wars: Episode IV — A New Hope’’ has its own sense of reality, even if it’s all taking place in a long-ago-and-far-away zone of make-believe.Which might mean that we have arrived in a version of the Futurists’ Utopia, a world defined by violence and speed, ubiquitous flying machines and nonstop moving pictures. We can take to the air on the backs of mythical birds or with the assistance of bulky metal suits (like Iron Man) or extraterrestrial super powers (like Superman). We can fling imaginary bodies into virtual space with a few swipes and keystrokes. Our machines are so refined they don’t even seem like machines anymore.We inhabit a time of first-person video games and drone warfare, in which the distance between the cockpit and the screen has all but collapsed, and physical space seems more and more abstract. We can’t tell if we’re rocketing through the ether or sitting perfectly still.Air travel is nothing special. Quite the opposite: It is the realm in which the petty indignities and dubious conveniences of modern life are most heavily concentrated. For the price of an economy ticket, we can endure the rote dumbness of state authority (‘‘Place your shoes directly on the belt’’) and the false friendliness of corporate power. So many choices to fill the dead time — Panda Express; Starbucks; Brookstone — none of them quite what we want. Including the choices for in-flight viewing on the headrest in front of us.All too often, our practices of moviegoing and -watching are similarly alienated. We shuffle into identical, charmless multiplexes in suburban malls or chain-store-clogged downtowns, grumble at the rudeness of our neighbors who text or talk or kick the back of our seat, eat snacks we don’t really like and fidget through the trailers as we wait for the feature. At home we have the illusion of more control, more choice and better snacks, but we end up frittering away hours browsing the various menus and queues before settling down to the same old thing.There’s an old song that says we’ll know we’ve seen it all when elephants fly. Which we have, in ‘‘Dumbo,’’ the movie that wrote the last word on cinematic flight way back in 1941, the time of Pearl Harbor and the Blitz, maybe the darkest year in the short history of actual human flight. ‘‘When I See an Elephant Fly’’ is the theme song, a jaunty revolt against the idea that anything is impossible, and ‘‘Dumbo’’ is one of Disney’s early feature-length parables of gumption and tenacity.AdvertisementIt’s hard to imagine a more earthbound creature than an elephant with big, floppy ears. But as Disney and other cartoon artists discovered, the charm of animation lies in its complete defiance of the laws of physics. You do not need to rig a crane, attach a camera to a glider or hunker down in the ball turret of a flying fortress. With a steady hand and a trained eye — with a labor force of draftsmen and colorists and cel cutters — you can reverse gravity and make your audience feel the giddiness and grace of unassisted flight.‘‘Dumbo’’ is a cartoon, but it is also an aviation picture, a fantasy that models the movement of organic creatures on the flight of machines, rather than the reverse. Dumbo is a flyboy, but he’s also a plane, requiring the help of Timothy Q. Mouse for navigation and ‘‘Contact!’’ His first sortie is accompanied by crows flying in V-formation, more like a fighter squadron than an avian flock. (They also embody Disney’s unfortunate fondness for racist stereotypes.) The elephant takes off in a cloud of dust, and the first thing he sees when it clears is his shadow moving across the land below, an uncanny sight familiar to every jet traveler lucky enough to score a window seat on a clear day. Dumbo’s climactic, triumphant flight, under the big top at the circus, is a barnstorming tour de force of the kind that brought crowds to the fairgrounds in the ’20s and ’30s, and the theme music is accompanied not by animal noises but by airplanelike buzzing and zooming. A potentially terrifying spectacle turns into a circus act.It’s this whimsy, this absurdity, this absolute indifference to the dictates of biology, gravity and cinematic coherence — even a child will notice that the proportions are seriously out of whack — that make ‘‘Dumbo’’ the greatest of all in-flight movies. It establishes an essential truth that can be perpetually redefined and rediscovered. The whole idea of flight is crazy. We are earthbound creatures, gray and lumbering and cursed with long memories. We harbor dreams of liberation, of transcendence, but who are we kidding? We can’t fly.A. O. Scott is a chief film critic for The Times. His book, ‘‘Better Living Through Criticism: How to Think About Art, Pleasure, Beauty and Truth,’’ will be published by the Penguin Press in February.Go to Home Page »