AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorsEmily Bazelon, a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine and the Truman Capote Fellow at Yale Law School, and Elizabeth Goitein, the co-director of the Liberty and National Security Program at the Brennan center, watched James B. Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee today, where the former F.B.I. director discussed the investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election.Moving forward, if this hearing is any indication, Trump’s defenders will be trying to portray Trump’s pressuring Comey to drop the Flynn investigation as an isolated incident, a president who simply didn’t know any better going a bit too far trying to get a friend off the hook. It will be up to lawmakers, journalists and others to keep the focus on the bigger picture and keep pushing for answers on the nature of Trump associates’ ties to Russia.But let’s take a real step back to the very beginning: Last summer and fall, a hostile foreign power used hackers to try to get a candidate, Donald Trump, elected. The F.B.I. determined there was sufficient evidence that Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia in this effort to open an investigation, which continues to this day. The president asked Comey, then the F.B.I. director, to pledge his loyalty and to shut down one part of the investigation. When the director didn’t comply, he was fired. And the intelligence committee hearing on all of this proceeded like it was just another partisan fight about tax cuts. The word “surreal” comes to mind.The full conversation that they had during the hearing is below:Of course, the key questions going into today were all about influence, and pressure, and how much of each the president can legitimately exert over the F.B.I. director who was investigating his campaign and key players in his administration.Liza, what did we learn from the released statement yesterday that mattered most? I saw Trump’s defenders and critics both doubling down. Is that because we are in a grey area in which we see the president tromping all over norms of F.B.I. and Justice Department independence, without necessarily seeing clear, indictable proof of the crime of obstruction of justice? Or is that the wrong standard, since what matters is the political bar for obstruction, which means it’s up to Congress? It seems as if these shouldn’t be partisan questions. Yet they are.“There’s no serious argument that this is appropriate behavior from an American president. Imagine for a moment testimony that President Barack Obama or a hypothetical President Hillary Clinton had a similar conversation with an F.B.I. director. The entire conservative-media world would erupt in outrage, and rightly so. The F.B.I. director is a law-enforcement officer, loyal to the Constitution, not the president’s consigliere.”Comey said he had no regrets about his decision, last July and October, to publicly discuss the F.B.I.’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server. What he did broke with Justice Department practice. Democrats have intensely criticized him for it.I don’t really think Trump was drawing conclusions in the way that Lowry implies. It seems more likely that the president was just trying to get what he wanted. But is there something to the underlying idea, that Comey himself scrambled the rules for what should and shouldn’t be public, in the context of a highly politicized F.B.I. investigation?And by the way, how telling is it that the former director of the F.B.I. testified that he felt he needed to document every encounter with Trump because, given “the nature of the person,” he felt Trump might lie? He actually used the “L” word! It’s a relief to hear, after listening to all the tortured synonyms reporters come up with to try to avoid calling it what it is. It’s not just a personal foible, and acknowledging it isn’t an ad hominem attack. When the president lies, it undermines the workings of democracy.Trump is right about the “cloud” hanging over him. Comey set a bad precedent last summer and I hope the F.B.I. ditches it. Though with Washington leaking like a sieve, it’s very hard to imagine how the agency could start investigating Trump personally and keep it a secret. But really, it’s for Congress — in particular the Senate Intelligence Committee —to give a public accounting.But moving on, we’ve repeatedly heard suggestions today that if Trump was only trying to get the F.B.I. to back off from one person, Flynn, that’s not a big problem. But of course it is! For one thing, we have no idea how central Flynn might be to the larger Russia investigation (as I mentioned before). Even more important, this goes to the heart of one of the most dangerous attributes of this president: His lack of respect for the rule of law.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS