AdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — At Shaw’s Tavern, a capital pub where sandwiches laden with Top Secret Sauce were cooking and Russian vodka was chilling, it was clear that regular Thursday-related responsibilities would have to wait. The former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation was about to speak. The president might tweet.“Major political events here are a bit like going to watch sports teams compete,” Brian Palladino, a computer programmer, said as he took his place in line just before the tavern opened at 9:30 a.m. “There’s a theatrical aspect to it.”Within 15 minutes, the bar was crammed to capacity. On this day — Comey Day — Washington was in full character, and thousands turned up in saloons across the city, ready to watch the latest installment of a reality show known as the Trump presidency.Mr. Comey, a man who in recent months has been cast alternately as a hero and as a villain in the public imagination, was going to speak for himself, and the people of Washington were not going to miss it. They found ways to work from home, take the day off or otherwise play a game of mental hooky to watch the hearing.Two drink specials, Drop the Bomb and the Last Word, were on offer for the testimony at the downtown cocktail bar Partisan. Rob Richardson, a 36-year-old lawyer, said he headed to the bar around 11 a.m. after trying unsuccessfully to watch the hearing at work.“When it’s a momentous thing,” Mr. Richardson said, “it’s kind of fun to be out, collectively processing this stuff.”Across the bar, Andria Eguia, 43, was one of 20 people who had made a reservation to watch the hearing. “This is history in the making,” she said.Voter enrollment in Washington is tilted heavily toward the Democrats, and there were whoops and shouts and claps whenever Mr. Comey appeared to target the Republican president. “Those were lies, plain and simple,” he said of the Trump administration’s insistence that he was fired because the F.B.I. had lost confidence in him and was otherwise in disarray. The crowds went wild.At Union Pub, a sports bar on Capitol Hill, bartenders stood ready to dole out a free round of Budweisers or bourbon shots whenever Mr. Trump tweeted. But the president’s personal Twitter feed, displayed on one of the bar’s TV screens, stayed quiet throughout the broadcast. (There was no such drink special for Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr., who tweeted throughout the hearing.)“No free rounds yet,” the bar’s general manager, Ashley Saunders, said as waitresses whizzed by with trays of beers and Tater Tots. “We’re keeping our fingers crossed.”Hoping to catch the action, a fleet of journalists had set up shop with their laptops in the sweaty, cramped bar. Ms. Saunders compared the media-heavy scene to Mr. Trump’s inauguration, “but with less turnover.” Hers was just one more comparison to add to the pile: To some, it felt like New Year’s Eve, or the Super Bowl, or the Anita Hill hearing.To others, it seemed just as surreal and singular as it was: a fired F.B.I. director taking direct aim at the integrity of a sitting president.As his testimony continued, Mr. Comey’s folksy demeanor — “Lordy, I hope there are tapes,” he said at one point — began to capture the imaginations of people in the crowd. Sarah Turner, an administrative assistant at the National Gallery of Art who described herself as “far left” politically, said she had not been “superaware” of Mr. Comey before. But this seemed like a big deal, so Ms. Turner rearranged her work schedule and went to a bar.“He seems like he’s being as transparent as he can be,” Ms. Turner, 23, said of Mr. Comey. “It’s an essential part of democracy that’s really been missing.”In other corners, conservatives were more skeptical of Mr. Comey’s delivery. Matthew Boyle, Washington political editor of the right-wing website Breitbart, showed up to Union Pub to digitally disparage the crowd of “Washington elites” who had gathered to watch the hearing.Mark Johnson, a Breitbart reader, poked his head into Union Pub on his way home from a job interview. Mr. Johnson called himself “a Republican, but I like Jim Comey.”He added: “I’m glad he did those advanced prepared remarks.”As the hearing wound down just before 1 p.m., lunchtime was beginning at Duffy’s Irish Pub. Some viewers stayed to finish their pints of Guinness, but over the chatter of MSNBC analysts, the pub conversation began to drift toward work and errands.Still, in a capital where the annual White House Correspondents’ Association dinner is known as Nerd Prom and cabdrivers tune into C-SPAN, the morning of Comey watch parties seemed as seminal as it was normal for this city.“This is a huge part of what the D.C. scene is,” said Laila Sharafi, 27. “Just watching it unfold with drinks in hand.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byWASHINGTON — At Shaw’s Tavern, a capital pub where sandwiches laden with Top Secret Sauce were cooking and Russian vodka was chilling, it was clear that regular Thursday-related responsibilities would have to wait. The former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation was about to speak. The president might tweet.“Major political events here are a bit like going to watch sports teams compete,” Brian Palladino, a computer programmer, said as he took his place in line just before the tavern opened at 9:30 a.m. “There’s a theatrical aspect to it.”Within 15 minutes, the bar was crammed to capacity. On this day — Comey Day — Washington was in full character, and thousands turned up in saloons across the city, ready to watch the latest installment of a reality show known as the Trump presidency.Mr. Comey, a man who in recent months has been cast alternately as a hero and as a villain in the public imagination, was going to speak for himself, and the people of Washington were not going to miss it. They found ways to work from home, take the day off or otherwise play a game of mental hooky to watch the hearing.Two drink specials, Drop the Bomb and the Last Word, were on offer for the testimony at the downtown cocktail bar Partisan. Rob Richardson, a 36-year-old lawyer, said he headed to the bar around 11 a.m. after trying unsuccessfully to watch the hearing at work.“When it’s a momentous thing,” Mr. Richardson said, “it’s kind of fun to be out, collectively processing this stuff.”Across the bar, Andria Eguia, 43, was one of 20 people who had made a reservation to watch the hearing. “This is history in the making,” she said.Voter enrollment in Washington is tilted heavily toward the Democrats, and there were whoops and shouts and claps whenever Mr. Comey appeared to target the Republican president. “Those were lies, plain and simple,” he said of the Trump administration’s insistence that he was fired because the F.B.I. had lost confidence in him and was otherwise in disarray. The crowds went wild.At Union Pub, a sports bar on Capitol Hill, bartenders stood ready to dole out a free round of Budweisers or bourbon shots whenever Mr. Trump tweeted. But the president’s personal Twitter feed, displayed on one of the bar’s TV screens, stayed quiet throughout the broadcast. (There was no such drink special for Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr., who tweeted throughout the hearing.)“No free rounds yet,” the bar’s general manager, Ashley Saunders, said as waitresses whizzed by with trays of beers and Tater Tots. “We’re keeping our fingers crossed.”Hoping to catch the action, a fleet of journalists had set up shop with their laptops in the sweaty, cramped bar. Ms. Saunders compared the media-heavy scene to Mr. Trump’s inauguration, “but with less turnover.” Hers was just one more comparison to add to the pile: To some, it felt like New Year’s Eve, or the Super Bowl, or the Anita Hill hearing.To others, it seemed just as surreal and singular as it was: a fired F.B.I. director taking direct aim at the integrity of a sitting president.As his testimony continued, Mr. Comey’s folksy demeanor — “Lordy, I hope there are tapes,” he said at one point — began to capture the imaginations of people in the crowd. Sarah Turner, an administrative assistant at the National Gallery of Art who described herself as “far left” politically, said she had not been “superaware” of Mr. Comey before. But this seemed like a big deal, so Ms. Turner rearranged her work schedule and went to a bar.“He seems like he’s being as transparent as he can be,” Ms. Turner, 23, said of Mr. Comey. “It’s an essential part of democracy that’s really been missing.”In other corners, conservatives were more skeptical of Mr. Comey’s delivery. Matthew Boyle, Washington political editor of the right-wing website Breitbart, showed up to Union Pub to digitally disparage the crowd of “Washington elites” who had gathered to watch the hearing.Mark Johnson, a Breitbart reader, poked his head into Union Pub on his way home from a job interview. Mr. Johnson called himself “a Republican, but I like Jim Comey.”He added: “I’m glad he did those advanced prepared remarks.”As the hearing wound down just before 1 p.m., lunchtime was beginning at Duffy’s Irish Pub. Some viewers stayed to finish their pints of Guinness, but over the chatter of MSNBC analysts, the pub conversation began to drift toward work and errands.Still, in a capital where the annual White House Correspondents’ Association dinner is known as Nerd Prom and cabdrivers tune into C-SPAN, the morning of Comey watch parties seemed as seminal as it was normal for this city.“This is a huge part of what the D.C. scene is,” said Laila Sharafi, 27. “Just watching it unfold with drinks in hand.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS