AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisThe shifting statements also illustrated starkly why some of the president’s lawyers have urged him not to submit to an interview by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is investigating whether Mr. Trump’s campaign cooperated with Russia during the 2016 presidential election and whether the president obstructed justice to thwart that investigation. Those lawyers have said Mr. Mueller is setting a perjury trap for Mr. Trump. What they do not say publicly is that they worry the president would be unable to avoid contradicting himself.Under the unforgiving glare of federal prosecutors, however, misrepresentations carry far greater jeopardy. In nearly a year on the case, Mr. Mueller has shown that he is more than willing to charge associates of Mr. Trump with lying to investigators; independent lawyers have said it would be reckless for the president’s lawyers to allow him to be interviewed. Even supporters who maintain that Mr. Trump is essentially a truth teller acknowledge that he can be loose with details.For Mr. Trump, it is about creating a narrative that suits his desired image, and dictating the terms of his own life — in media coverage, in his business, in politics, even in his medical care. But he now risks losing his grip on the story line he has long sought to control, in part because of his own treatment of associates like his doctor and the lawyer who paid the porn star.This week’s revelation about the true origin of the doctor’s statement may not have surprised many. When Dr. Harold N. Bornstein released a letter in December 2015 saying that Mr. Trump would be “the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency,” few believed it was authentic. It contained the exact language about “strength and stamina” that the candidate often used to describe himself.From complete denial to acknowledging involvement, what President Trump and his lawyers said about the $130,000 paid to the pornographic film actress.But in an interview on Fox News on Wednesday night, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor now serving as a lawyer for the president, said Mr. Trump had reimbursed Mr. Cohen for the money.In a follow-up interview on Thursday morning, Mr. Giuliani said Mr. Trump did not actually learn the specifics until recently. “He didn’t know the details of this until we knew the details of this, which was a couple weeks ago,” Mr. Giuliani said. “Maybe not even a couple — maybe 10 days ago.”Mr. Giuliani seemed less concerned with explaining Mr. Trump’s previous denial than with emphasizing that it was the candidate’s personal money and therefore could not be a violation of campaign finance law. He said the payment to Ms. Clifford as part of a nondisclosure agreement was made in October 2016 only to protect Mr. Trump’s family from a false allegation, not to influence the election less than two weeks later.While others might think paying $130,000 to someone who was making a false allegation was hard to fathom, for a wealthy man like Mr. Trump it was not quite “pocket change, but it’s pretty close to it,” Mr. Giuliani said.“When Cohen heard $130,000, he said: ‘My God, this is cheap — they come cheap. Let me get the thing signed up and signed off,’” Mr. Giuliani added.On Fox News, Mr. Giuliani attributed the decision to Mr. Comey’s refusal to publicly exonerate Mr. Trump in the Russia investigation. “He fired Comey because Comey would not, among other things, say that he wasn’t a target of the investigation,” Mr. Giuliani said. Since then, Mr. Mueller’s office has told the White House that Mr. Trump is a subject, though not a target, of the investigation.But some still wondered whether it was an unscripted comment, especially given that it came up almost casually at the end of a long interview with Sean Hannity, the Fox News host. Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Trump have a long and deep relationship. The former mayor has the president’s ear — and understands how to communicate with him — in a way that few others do.Still, Mr. Giuliani is a former big city mayor accustomed to being an executive, and his ability to simply carry out orders without adding his own flair has always been in question.Either way, the last few days have shown that Mr. Trump’s narrative is now at least in part in the hands of others — his lawyers, his friends, his doctor, his accuser’s lawyer, even his investigators. And for a man who prefers to craft his own story line, that is not a comfortable situation.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS