AdvertisementSupported byThe furious fighting in the ranks of Republican opponents of Donald Trump — combat that is growing ever more heated and rhetorically violent — has forced open to public view long-festering wounds in the conservative coalition.He’s someone who wants to get stuff done — a politician who’s not beholden to any kind of ideology, not beholden to special interests. I don’t think he is George Wallace in his heart of hearts. He’s not a strategic threat to the future of the republic. He’s just a buffoon and a political opportunist.There’s no reason to believe most D.C. lobbyists would recognize such a threat if it strolled into their well-appointed offices and plopped itself down on one of their well-upholstered settees.The Republican establishment, including its cadre of lobbyists, Kristol continued, hasa deeply ingrained instinct to accommodate those who threaten from without and to collaborate with the buffoons and opportunists who have established beachheads within.These Trump accommodationists have “brought to light the rot of an ideological movement that many of us had thought was alive and reasonably well.”To clear the air, Feehery noted that he has not endorsed anyone but “I really, really like John Kasich.” Feehery said that his own basic policy in elections is to “support whomever the Republican Party nominates.”He then counterattacked: “Our party is in the shape it is today because of people like Bill Kristol.”Kristol, in Feehery’s view, helped lay the groundwork for the Iraq invasion, “a huge mistake.” But most of all, Kristolbelieved that Sarah Palin would be the savior of the party and he promoted her heavily when she got on the ticket with John McCain.Palin, in turn, Feehery argues, “was the real start of the dumbing down of the G.O.P.,” a cascading process that led to Trump. “You don’t get to Donald Trump without Sarah Palin.”Trump, in Southside Chicago, saying “Make America Great Again” means your children shouldn’t be killed, your schools should actually work, there should be jobs in your neighborhood. I think that would shatter the fabric of the Democratic Party, and expose the degree to which they have exploited poor people without actually helping them. I think it would be very healthy for America.Trump is a bully, unworthy of our nomination. My love for our country eclipses my loyalty to our party, and to live with a clear conscience I will not support a nominee so lacking in the judgment, temperament and character needed to be our nation’s commander-in-chief. Accordingly, if left with no alternative, I will not support Trump in the general election should he become our Republican nominee.Nowhere on the right is the conflict as hostile as it is among conservative Christians.The only hope for the GOP is to be on God’s side. Allowing the GOP to move into Trumpism will lead away from that hope, not toward it.I am proud to offer my endorsement of Donald J. Trump for President of the United States. He is a successful executive and entrepreneur, a wonderful father and a man who I believe can lead our country to greatness again.” Falwell also said, “I see a lot of parallels between my father and Donald Trump. Like Mr. Trump, Dad would speak his mind.In a phone interview, Moore described Trump as the embodiment of cultural decadence — the personification of the moral decline he says Christian leaders have struggled to halt for the past generation.“Some high profile evangelicals are completely repudiating the conviction that character matters,” Moore said. He described Trump as aHoward Stern conservative, a reflection of the pornographic culture combined with proletarian demagoguery. Some of the older generation of evangelical leaders standing behind Donald Trump should imagine what they would say if a Democratic candidate had done or said any of the things that Trump has, his boasts of adultery, his profiting from casinos, his putrid speech about minorities and women.Wherever he goes in religious circles, Moore said, Trump is the dominant subject of discussion: “How do we maintain the witness of the Christian church at a time when America seems to have gone crazy?”The truth is we either have primaries or we don’t; we either have rules or we don’t. What’s worse for a democracy: When a bad guy gets elected or when the losers refuse to lose? Whoever wins the primaries and is compliant with the rules should be the Republican nominee. Period.I don’t give a damn about the will of the people. I’m telling you that I personally will not ever support Donald Trump. If you don’t like it, deal with it. It’s the will of this person! The will of the people is just a polite way of saying the collective, which is the authoritarian, socialist destiny of this nation if Donald Trump is elected. I want no part of it and will play no role other than to stop Donald Trump.While only 37 percent of those polled considered Clinton “honest and trustworthy,” even fewer, 27 percent, believe that those words accurately describe Trump. When voters were asked if Clinton and Trump have the experience and personality to serve as president, Clinton beat Trump by 66-26 and 58-26 respectively.It is universally acknowledged, however, that this is not a normal election. One of Trump’s talents is the destruction and humiliation of his opponents, as the Republican candidates who have dropped out one after another can testify.The issues animating grass-roots voters — opposition to immigration, worries about wages and discomfort with America’s fast-changing demographics — are diverging from and at times colliding with the Republican establishment’s interests in free trade, lower taxes, less regulation and openness to immigration.The phrase “fast changing demographics” is a reference to the growing numbers of blacks, Hispanics, Asian-Americans and other minorities, while the white share of the population steadily declines.Trump supporters think the appropriate response to white working-class decline is to shut the border, keep out Muslims, deport 11 million undocumented immigrants, oppose political correctness about race and gender, lash out at the journalists who supposedly encourage all of the social and cultural trends that need to be turned back and reversed, and kick out the elites leading both parties in favor of vastly smarter and tougher men like Donald Trump.As Republicans, if you think you are going to change very substantially for the worse Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security in any substantial way, and at the same time you think you are going to win elections, it just really is not going to happen.I would say that Ted Cruz is leading in the “Jerry Falwell” wing, Marco Rubio is leading the “Billy Graham” wing and Trump is leading the “Jimmy Swaggart” wing.We should not demand to see the long-form certificate for Mr. Trump’s second birth. We should, though, ask about his personal character and fitness for office. His personal morality is clear, not because of tabloid exposés but because of his own boasts.Moore went on. Voters shouldcount the cost of following Donald Trump. To do so would mean that we’ve decided to join the other side of the culture war, that image and celebrity and money and power and social Darwinist “winning” trump the conservation of moral principles and a just society. We ought to listen, to get past the boisterous confidence and the television lights and the waving arms and hear just whose speech we’re applauding.Trump has become a human wrecking ball. He may be able to assemble the 1,237 delegates needed to win his party’s nomination, but when he is done with that he will face the task of building a national coalition strong enough to make the old one he has destroyed irrelevant.In the face of this possibility, should we ask ourselves — whatever our beliefs are — to live up to Moore’s ethical values? What happens if we don’t?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS