AdvertisementSupported byMr. Trump has made clear that his frustration with Mr. Sessions, the former Alabama senator who was one of his earliest campaign supporters, stems from the attorney general’s decision to recuse himself from the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and whether Mr. Trump’s associates conspired with Russia.The pattern has fueled suspicion that Mr. Trump is trying to bully Mr. Sessions into resigning — and might fire him if he does not leave voluntarily — in order to clear the way for a replacement who would take control of that investigation. Here is a breakdown of possible legal and procedural paths such a maneuver could take.If Mr. Trump were to order Mr. Mueller fired and Mr. Rosenstein refused — and then resigned or was himself fired by Mr. Trump — it could set up a repetition of the so-called Saturday Night Massacre of 1973, in which Richard M. Nixon’s search for a Justice Department official willing to fire the special counsel investigating the Watergate scandal prompted a cascade of resignations. That would increase political risks for Mr. Trump.A new attorney general who is not recused from the Trump-Russia investigation would take over from Mr. Rosenstein as the overseer of the special counsel investigation and could fire Mr. Mueller — either by declaring that Mr. Mueller has overstepped in some way, or by first modifying Justice Department regulations to eliminate the rule protecting special counsels.A new attorney general could also declare that the regular Justice Department can handle the investigation after all, disbanding Mr. Mueller’s staff. And he or she could direct investigators to swiftly wrap up their work while narrowly interpreting their jurisdiction, such as limiting their ability to scrutinize whether Mr. Trump’s interactions with James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director fired by the president, amounted to obstruction of justice.It could. If the chamber goes into a formal recess before leaving Washington next month for its annual break, Mr. Trump could make recess appointments while senators are on vacation.Yes. Congress can prevent presidents from making appointments during its breaks by holding so-called pro forma sessions, in which a senator comes into the otherwise-empty chamber every few days and bangs the gavel. That technically breaks up a long recess into a series of short ones — each too brief to trigger appointment powers.That is not clear. The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, called upon Republicans on Tuesday to use pro forma sessions in August to prevent Mr. Trump from appointing “someone during the August recess who will fire Special Counsel Mueller and shut down the Russia investigation.” He also vowed that Democrats would try to do that on their own if Republicans refused.Before the Senate adjourns for more than three days, Congress adopts a concurrent resolution giving it the authority to do so. That is normally routine, but Democrats are discussing whether to try to block any up-or-down vote on such a resolution by offering an unlimited series of amendments to its date and time for reconvening. If the Senate gives up and leaves town without such a resolution, the Constitution would require pro forma sessions every three days, blocking recess appointments.Alan S. Frumin, who served as the Senate’s chief parliamentarian from 1987 to 1995 and from 2001 to 2012, said Republicans could “quash such a filibuster by amendment” using what some call the nuclear option to change the rules. Under that scenario, if a majority of senators vote to deem the Democrats’ amendments “dilatory,” they could adjourn in a way that leaves Mr. Trump free to make recess appointments. But if at least three Republican senators break ranks, the Senate would need to meet every three days.The Constitution also says that if the House and Senate disagree when to adjourn, the president “may adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper.” That suggests Mr. Trump might be able to force the Senate into a lengthy recess. But no president has tried to exercise this power, and it is not clear what would constitute such a disagreement: Mr. Frumin said that the House typically gives its consent for the Senate to adjourn for more than three days but does not order the Senate to do so.“This would be an enormous political and constitutional danger,” he said. “If he can force them into adjournment, he can in essence terminate Congress.”Firing Mr. Sessions and Mr. Mueller would be a shocking moment for Washington, where many Republicans in Congress have expressed support for Mr. Mueller and conservatives like Mr. Sessions. But Republicans have also shown no appetite for impeachment proceedings to replace Mr. Trump with Vice President Pence, and it is an open question what, if anything, it would take to change that.On Tuesday, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, was asked about Mr. Trump apparently laying the groundwork to fire Mr. Sessions and make a recess appointment of someone who could fire Mr. Mueller. He was asked if he was concerned.“Look, the president gets to decide what his personnel is,” Mr. Ryan replied, adding: “He determines who gets hired and fired in the executive branch. That’s his prerogative.”Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS