AdvertisementSupported byThe notice, delivered in September by a conservative advocacy group, is at the heart of an increasingly bitter argument over the seemingly mundane task of keeping accurate lists of voters — an issue that will be a marquee argument before the Supreme Court in January.At a time when gaming the rules of elections has become standard political strategy, the task raises a high-stakes question: Is scrubbing ineligible voters from the rolls worth the effort if it means mistakenly bumping legitimate voters as well?That was the election in which George W. Bush’s 537-vote margin in Florida secured his place in the White House. Controlling the rules of elections — including who is on or off the rolls — has been both a crucial part of political strategy and a legal battleground ever since.Conservative groups and Republican election officials in some states say the poorly maintained rolls invite fraud and meddling by hackers, sap public confidence in elections and make election workers’ jobs harder. Voting rights advocates and most Democratic election officials, in turn, say that the benefits are mostly imaginary, and that the purges are intended to reduce the number of minority, poor and young voters, who are disproportionately Democrats.Mr. Adams is among several conservatives appointed by President Trump to the White House’s Advisory Commission on Voter Integrity, the voter fraud panel mired in a partisan feud over its operations and political intentions.A spokesman for the Public Interest Legal Foundation, Logan Churchwell, said election officials were hobbled by a lack of money and “a failure of imagination.” The law sets few boundaries on tending lists, largely requiring that officials keep voters on the rolls for up to two general elections if they cannot confirm that they have moved. The most explicit prohibitions outlaw striking voters simply because they have not cast ballots and ban delistings within 90 days of elections.Mr. Churchwell said that too many election officials rely on the mail to determine whether people have moved, depending on voters to return postage-paid confirmation requests sent to their last known address. Voters who lose or fail to return them — or sometimes, never get them — are left on the rolls. The 1993 law, he said, did not anticipate a digital world in which the dead and other ineligible voters can be identified more quickly and perhaps more cheaply.Brenda Snipes, the Broward elections supervisor, said the county followed the same procedures as Florida’s other 66 counties in managing voter rolls. “The court record shows thousands and thousands of people that were purged during the time they expressed concern,” she said.Broward has a regimen for verifying the status of centenarians, she said, “but you can’t just suspect that a person may be dead or moved away and remove them from the rolls.”Election officials routinely cull their rolls, but delisting is an exercise fraught with error. Registrants who die in other states — say, New Yorkers who winter in Florida — may pass unnoticed in the states where they are registered.Officials do tap databases kept by state vital records agencies, the Social Security Administration and the Postal Service, which has a change-of-address list. But the databases cannot assure matches; some jurisdictions do not collect personal information like Social Security or driver’s license numbers that could make a positive ID easier.Add to that the vagaries of human error and habit. Clerks make mistakes while typing registration information into computers.In that suit, Ohio officials disenfranchised thousands of eligible voters by requiring all voters who skipped a single election to return a postage-paid form stating whether they had moved. Those who failed to return the form were delisted if they did not vote in the next two elections, even if they were legally still eligible.The Supreme Court, which will hear the case in January, will decide whether the purge violated the Voter Registration Act’s near-total ban on removing registrants because they do not vote. Three of the four conservative advocacy groups have filed briefs supporting Ohio’s purging methods.“The right to vote is too important to treat as a use-it-or-lose-it right,” said Mr. Naifeh of Demos, which represents the plaintiffs in the suit.A federal appeals court struck down the Ohio rule last year. That the Supreme Court decided to rehear the case, some experts say, suggests the justices may be inclined to reverse the lower court ruling. It also underscores the significance of the Republican Senate’s decision to hold open a vacant seat on the court until a Trump administration nominee, a new justice, Neil M. Gorsuch, was able to give conservatives a majority.That said, any ruling is likely to have a fairly limited reach because the debate involves only a technical interpretation of a single clause in the law, said Edward B. Foley, an elections expert at Ohio State University’s law school.Voting rights advocates say the purge efforts fall in partisan line with their other court battles over voting restrictions imposed by Republican governments: amicus briefs supporting partisan gerrymandering in Wisconsin; North Carolina voter restrictions later found to have violated the 14th Amendment and the Voting Rights Act; and a Kansas rule that imposed proof-of-citizenship requirements on new registrations for state elections.Critics also note that the defendants of lawsuits filed by the groups tend to fit a partisan mold. “In a nutshell, they target minority areas and heavily Democratic areas,” said Ms. Snipes of Broward, which is Florida’s bluest county.Mr. Churchwell countered that many of the counties that received notices in September were “blood-red counties that are never going to turn Democrat.”“We’re doing a pretty terrible job toiling away in Iowa and Nebraska,” he said, jokingly.Robert Popper, a former Justice Department lawyer now at Judicial Watch, suggested that the groups’ critics are the ones playing politics. The Voter Registration Act both expands voter registration opportunities and requires that the rolls be culled, he said. While the Obama administration’s Justice Department vigorously enforced the voter registration requirements, he said, the last lawsuit enforcing the culling mandate was litigated in 2007 — by him.The Trump administration’s Justice Department is changing that. It already has backed away from lawsuits against restrictive voting practices. It has asked state election officials for information on what they are doing to keep their rolls up to date.And in August, it filed an amicus brief in the Ohio case before the Supreme Court supporting Ohio’s delisting process — and reversing the Obama Justice Department’s opposition to it.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS