AdvertisementSupported byPHILADELPHIA — A day after vowing to stay in his job despite a reproof from the president, Attorney General Jeff Sessions pressed his immigration agenda on Friday in Philadelphia, a so-called sanctuary city that limits its cooperation with federal immigration authorities.“The residents of Philadelphia have been victimized,” Mr. Sessions told federal prosecutors here, denouncing the city for “giving sanctuary to criminals.”Philadelphia’s police commissioner later rebutted Mr. Sessions, saying the city now had “one of the lowest crime rates since the 1970s.”Philadelphia’s mayor, Jim Kenney, a Democrat, said Friday that crime rates declined the year he reinstated a sanctuary city policy, and he argued that the Trump administration’s posture was counterproductive. “If victims and witnesses of crimes don’t report those crimes to the police because they fear deportation, that allows the real bad guys to stay on the streets,” Mr. Kenney said.Richard Ross Jr., Philadelphia’s police commissioner, also disputed Mr. Sessions’s characterizations of the city.“We don’t harbor anyone — we’re a welcoming city, not a sanctuary city” for criminals, Commissioner Ross said, adding that Philadelphia “can’t afford” to lose federal funding.Despite Mr. Sessions’s speech, the commissioner said he didn’t “personally believe that we belong in the immigration business.”Still, in some 25 minutes of remarks, Mr. Sessions subtly answered another rebuke the president had made in the interview, this one of Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, who in May appointed a special counsel to lead the government’s Russia investigation.Mr. Trump, a Republican, bemoaned that Mr. Rosenstein was “from Baltimore,” a heavily Democratic city. While Mr. Rosenstein worked there as the United States attorney in Maryland, he has lived in the suburbs of Washington and is from the Philadelphia area.Within moments of taking the lectern Friday, Mr. Sessions indirectly corrected the record. “Rod Rosenstein is from this area — a University of Pennsylvania Wharton business school graduate,” he said, naming the president’s own alma mater. “He’s really a good guy.”“Hopefully we’ll get the rest of them moving fast,” Mr. Sessions said. “I do my best every day,” he added, “to fulfill the goals the president and I share.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS