AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisMr. Trump may be relatively new to Washington, but Mr. Comey is not.A savvy veteran of the capital who has worked in high positions in multiple administrations, he has usually emerged on top in any internal power struggle. And in the month since his dismissal, Mr. Comey has shown why presidents are normally loath to fire F.B.I. directors.“I did find the timing of the release a little bit interesting, directly after testimony,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, an administration spokeswoman, told reporters on Air Force One as the president returned from Cincinnati.By the end of the day, Mr. Trump’s team sought to make the best of the situation by releasing a statement from his lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, focusing on the part of Mr. Comey’s statement confirming that he had assured the president that he was not personally under investigation.“The president feels completely and totally vindicated,” Mr. Kasowitz said, making no mention of the part of Mr. Comey’s statement asserting that the president tried to shut down an investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn.In the Washington-is-a-small-world department, the F.B.I. director at the time, who was another ally of Mr. Comey’s in that conflict, was Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller is now the special counsel investigating the Russia matter — which could include Mr. Trump’s decision to fire Mr. Comey.The president’s allies cited that inexperience to defend him on Wednesday. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey described Mr. Trump’s comments to Mr. Comey as the product of a political novice who did not understand how they would be taken. “What you’re seeing is a president who is now very publicly learning about the way people react to what he considers to be normal New York City conversation,” Mr. Christie told Nicolle Wallace on MSNBC’s “Deadline: White House.”The mood among Mr. Trump’s staff and shrinking roster of outside surrogates was one of apprehension, not panic. Some said Mr. Comey’s statement was even something of a relief because it did not contain any bigger surprises.Mr. Trump then flew to Cincinnati to deliver a forceful “America First” message as he promoted his infrastructure plan, although it has yet to be fleshed out. Like many of his speeches, Mr. Trump’s pitch at Rivertowne Marina was a wandering assortment of self-defenses, attacks and non sequiturs that bumped into one another like untethered barges.Just as he has shrugged off pleas by lawyers, aides and Republican allies to curtail his use of Twitter, he frequently disregarded the teleprompter during his speech, and invited two old New York real estate friends, Richard LeFrak and Steven Roth, onto the dais.Aides said the plan was to keep Mr. Trump busy during the hearing on Thursday in hopes of preventing errant tweets. He is scheduled to address the Faith and Freedom Coalition, a conservative religious group. The White House will leave it to the Republican National Committee and its surrogates to counterattack against Mr. Comey.“The great challenge for the president and his most active supporters here is that Mr. Comey has a very well-developed reputation, built over 20 years or so in law enforcement,” said Kevin Madden, a longtime Republican strategist.But aides hardly imagine that Mr. Trump will let Mr. Comey have the last word.Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Glenn Thrush from Cincinnati. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisMr. Trump may be relatively new to Washington, but Mr. Comey is not.A savvy veteran of the capital who has worked in high positions in multiple administrations, he has usually emerged on top in any internal power struggle. And in the month since his dismissal, Mr. Comey has shown why presidents are normally loath to fire F.B.I. directors.“I did find the timing of the release a little bit interesting, directly after testimony,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, an administration spokeswoman, told reporters on Air Force One as the president returned from Cincinnati.By the end of the day, Mr. Trump’s team sought to make the best of the situation by releasing a statement from his lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, focusing on the part of Mr. Comey’s statement confirming that he had assured the president that he was not personally under investigation.“The president feels completely and totally vindicated,” Mr. Kasowitz said, making no mention of the part of Mr. Comey’s statement asserting that the president tried to shut down an investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn.In the Washington-is-a-small-world department, the F.B.I. director at the time, who was another ally of Mr. Comey’s in that conflict, was Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller is now the special counsel investigating the Russia matter — which could include Mr. Trump’s decision to fire Mr. Comey.The president’s allies cited that inexperience to defend him on Wednesday. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey described Mr. Trump’s comments to Mr. Comey as the product of a political novice who did not understand how they would be taken. “What you’re seeing is a president who is now very publicly learning about the way people react to what he considers to be normal New York City conversation,” Mr. Christie told Nicolle Wallace on MSNBC’s “Deadline: White House.”The mood among Mr. Trump’s staff and shrinking roster of outside surrogates was one of apprehension, not panic. Some said Mr. Comey’s statement was even something of a relief because it did not contain any bigger surprises.Mr. Trump then flew to Cincinnati to deliver a forceful “America First” message as he promoted his infrastructure plan, although it has yet to be fleshed out. Like many of his speeches, Mr. Trump’s pitch at Rivertowne Marina was a wandering assortment of self-defenses, attacks and non sequiturs that bumped into one another like untethered barges.Just as he has shrugged off pleas by lawyers, aides and Republican allies to curtail his use of Twitter, he frequently disregarded the teleprompter during his speech, and invited two old New York real estate friends, Richard LeFrak and Steven Roth, onto the dais.Aides said the plan was to keep Mr. Trump busy during the hearing on Thursday in hopes of preventing errant tweets. He is scheduled to address the Faith and Freedom Coalition, a conservative religious group. The White House will leave it to the Republican National Committee and its surrogates to counterattack against Mr. Comey.“The great challenge for the president and his most active supporters here is that Mr. Comey has a very well-developed reputation, built over 20 years or so in law enforcement,” said Kevin Madden, a longtime Republican strategist.But aides hardly imagine that Mr. Trump will let Mr. Comey have the last word.Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Glenn Thrush from Cincinnati. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS