AdvertisementSupported byMr. Giuliani declined to confirm whether a meeting took place. But the three people briefed on the sit-down — the first since the former New York City mayor joined the legal team last week — described it as a productive effort to reopen negotiations over a possible interview that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is seeking with the president.“At this stage of an investigation, it’d be highly unusual to let an ordinary client testify,” Mr. Giuliani said. However, he added, “This isn’t an ordinary client. This is the president of the United States.”He said that they were trying to assess whether Mr. Mueller “and his staff are truly objective,” particularly in terms of Mr. Comey. “Obviously, if they’ve already made up their minds, we’d be stupid to do that.”Mr. Trump’s legal team is not united on precisely how to deal with Mr. Mueller’s office going forward. But a person familiar with the discussions said that they expected to visit with Mr. Mueller’s team in the next few days as they try to find a path forward.Mr. Giuliani’s longtime law partner, Marc L. Mukasey, is likely to join the team after a success this week in a trial in Connecticut, two people close to the team said.Mr. Trump has expressed different views at different times about whether he wants to sit for an interview with Mr. Mueller. But some people on the president’s team believe that the only way to wind down the special counsel investigation is to negotiate an interview, or something in its place, that would satisfy the questions Mr. Mueller has.Mr. Trump has denounced that investigation, and he has maintained that there was “no collusion” between his campaign and Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. But Mr. Giuliani is a well-known name who was willing to take on Mr. Trump’s case, and he has a personal relationship with Mr. Mueller from his own days working for the Justice Department.Some of Mr. Trump’s lawyers believe that the existing law does not allow for the prosecution of a sitting president, meaning that Mr. Mueller is most likely to simply issue a report to Congress, regardless of whether Mr. Trump takes part in an interview.Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS