AdvertisementSupported byGood morning.Here’s what you need to know:The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members:“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS