AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump, Russia, White House meetings and questions of executive power were all front and center at James B. Comey’s hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday.But another theme also emerged: Mr. Comey’s interplay with the news media.And in one memorable moment, he compared a throng of reporters gathered at his driveway to “sea gulls at the beach,” prompting laughter in the chamber.Mr. Comey testified that he hoped that the information would lead to the appointment of a special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.The right was not alone in focusing on the acknowledgment. Shortly after the hearing ended, The Huffington Post ran with the lead headline “Comey: I Leaked to Get a Special Prosecutor.”In his rebuttal to Mr. Comey, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, attacked Mr. Comey’s admission as a betrayal of his official duties and a sign of his intent to embarrass the president. Mr. Comey, in his testimony, noted that the memo was not classified and that he was no longer a government employee when he leaked it.It is highly unusual in Washington circles for powerful officials to admit to being the source of a leak. But the reality, veteran journalists say, is that such leaks are a day-to-day occurrence — perhaps even more so during the Trump administration, as revelatory details about the White House have led to a series of blockbuster stories over the last several months.News organizations friendly to Mr. Trump, who often attacks The Times, found fresh material in Mr. Comey’s assertion.Breitbart News, in its reporting on the comment, evoked a frequent presidential phrase: “fake news.”Mr. Comey’s testimony was carried live on numerous broadcast and cable networks, and anchors on multiple networks expressed their astonishment at the political developments on Thursday. On NBC, Savannah Guthrie described the remarkable scene of a former F.B.I. director “calling the sitting president a liar, on more than one occasion.” Chuck Todd said that leading Democrats were “looking for a smoking gun and didn’t get it.”Many commentators noted that Mr. Comey had stopped short of accusing the president of obstructing justice. Fox News’s anchors, immediately after the testimony, offered a mixed analysis. Dana Perino, a former aide to President George W. Bush, said, “If the Democrats were going to be thinking this is going to be a home run for them today, they got a surprise.”Chris Wallace, the host of “Fox News Sunday,” noted that “there were different audiences” watching Mr. Comey.“If I were Donald Trump’s lawyer, I would be pretty happy,” Mr. Wallace said on-air. But he added, “Politically, I thought it was very damaging to the president,” and noted that Mr. Comey had explicitly called the president a liar.“It’s not good stuff to have been said on national television,” Mr. Wallace said.Observers of the news media kept close track of the headlines, known in the television news industry as chyrons, that flash onscreen as a kind of instant analysis of the hearing. When Mr. Comey concluded his public remarks, around 12:30 p.m., the final chyrons encapsulated a familiar divide.CNN’s banner read: “Comey: Trump Admin Lied About Me & F.B.I.” On Fox News, the message was different: “Comey: Not for Me to Say If Trump Obstructed.”Jaclyn Peiser contributed research.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump, Russia, White House meetings and questions of executive power were all front and center at James B. Comey’s hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday.But another theme also emerged: Mr. Comey’s interplay with the news media.And in one memorable moment, he compared a throng of reporters gathered at his driveway to “sea gulls at the beach,” prompting laughter in the chamber.Mr. Comey testified that he hoped that the information would lead to the appointment of a special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.The right was not alone in focusing on the acknowledgment. Shortly after the hearing ended, The Huffington Post ran with the lead headline “Comey: I Leaked to Get a Special Prosecutor.”In his rebuttal to Mr. Comey, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, attacked Mr. Comey’s admission as a betrayal of his official duties and a sign of his intent to embarrass the president. Mr. Comey, in his testimony, noted that the memo was not classified and that he was no longer a government employee when he leaked it.It is highly unusual in Washington circles for powerful officials to admit to being the source of a leak. But the reality, veteran journalists say, is that such leaks are a day-to-day occurrence — perhaps even more so during the Trump administration, as revelatory details about the White House have led to a series of blockbuster stories over the last several months.News organizations friendly to Mr. Trump, who often attacks The Times, found fresh material in Mr. Comey’s assertion.Breitbart News, in its reporting on the comment, evoked a frequent presidential phrase: “fake news.”Mr. Comey’s testimony was carried live on numerous broadcast and cable networks, and anchors on multiple networks expressed their astonishment at the political developments on Thursday. On NBC, Savannah Guthrie described the remarkable scene of a former F.B.I. director “calling the sitting president a liar, on more than one occasion.” Chuck Todd said that leading Democrats were “looking for a smoking gun and didn’t get it.”Many commentators noted that Mr. Comey had stopped short of accusing the president of obstructing justice. Fox News’s anchors, immediately after the testimony, offered a mixed analysis. Dana Perino, a former aide to President George W. Bush, said, “If the Democrats were going to be thinking this is going to be a home run for them today, they got a surprise.”Chris Wallace, the host of “Fox News Sunday,” noted that “there were different audiences” watching Mr. Comey.“If I were Donald Trump’s lawyer, I would be pretty happy,” Mr. Wallace said on-air. But he added, “Politically, I thought it was very damaging to the president,” and noted that Mr. Comey had explicitly called the president a liar.“It’s not good stuff to have been said on national television,” Mr. Wallace said.Observers of the news media kept close track of the headlines, known in the television news industry as chyrons, that flash onscreen as a kind of instant analysis of the hearing. When Mr. Comey concluded his public remarks, around 12:30 p.m., the final chyrons encapsulated a familiar divide.CNN’s banner read: “Comey: Trump Admin Lied About Me & F.B.I.” On Fox News, the message was different: “Comey: Not for Me to Say If Trump Obstructed.”Jaclyn Peiser contributed research.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS