AdvertisementSupported byEither way, the chatter has heightened interest in several key legal issues about the scope and limits of Mr. Trump’s clemency powers. Here is what you need to know:Anyone pardoned by Mr. Trump would receive immunity from being charged with a federal crime over his or her past conduct covered by the pardon. That could contract the scope of the special counsel investigation being led by Robert S. Mueller III into possible ties between associates of Mr. Trump and Russia’s meddling in the presidential election.Some legal specialists think so. While pardons are widely understood to be irrevocable even if obtained through questionable means, some experts think that a president who abuses his pardon power might be subject to prosecution.This is not clear. The only limitation explicitly stated in the Constitution is a ban on using a pardon to stop an impeachment proceeding in Congress, and the only obvious implicit limitation is that he cannot pardon offenses under state law.But some legal scholars think a president cannot pardon himself, either, because it would be a conflict of interest.But she did not explain what transformed that principle into an unwritten legal limit on the power the Constitution bestows on presidents.There is no definitive answer because no president has ever tried to pardon himself and then been prosecuted, which would give courts a chance to weigh in. If Mr. Trump did purport to pardon himself, and was later indicted anyway, it could create an opportunity for the Supreme Court to resolve the question.In her 1974 memo, Ms. Lawton argued that it would be lawful for a president to declare himself temporarily disabled, receive a pardon from the vice president, and then resume his role as president.Under such a scenario, Mr. Trump could put his pardon on firmer legal footing by getting Vice President Mike Pence to do it for him.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEither way, the chatter has heightened interest in several key legal issues about the scope and limits of Mr. Trump’s clemency powers. Here is what you need to know:Anyone pardoned by Mr. Trump would receive immunity from being charged with a federal crime over his or her past conduct covered by the pardon. That could contract the scope of the special counsel investigation being led by Robert S. Mueller III into possible ties between associates of Mr. Trump and Russia’s meddling in the presidential election.Some legal specialists think so. While pardons are widely understood to be irrevocable even if obtained through questionable means, some experts think that a president who abuses his pardon power might be subject to prosecution.This is not clear. The only limitation explicitly stated in the Constitution is a ban on using a pardon to stop an impeachment proceeding in Congress, and the only obvious implicit limitation is that he cannot pardon offenses under state law.But some legal scholars think a president cannot pardon himself, either, because it would be a conflict of interest.But she did not explain what transformed that principle into an unwritten legal limit on the power the Constitution bestows on presidents.There is no definitive answer because no president has ever tried to pardon himself and then been prosecuted, which would give courts a chance to weigh in. If Mr. Trump did purport to pardon himself, and was later indicted anyway, it could create an opportunity for the Supreme Court to resolve the question.In her 1974 memo, Ms. Lawton argued that it would be lawful for a president to declare himself temporarily disabled, receive a pardon from the vice president, and then resume his role as president.Under such a scenario, Mr. Trump could put his pardon on firmer legal footing by getting Vice President Mike Pence to do it for him.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS