AdvertisementSupported byA few hours later, that plan was scrapped.Meanwhile, in New York, as the news rippled through the Times building, Mr. Bodkin made his way back to the newsroom and tore another sheet of green paper from his pad. It was time to redesign the front page.The original plan was to feature a large portrait of Comey — a “conventional treatment,” Mr. Bodkin said. “And we had a pretty nice portrait of him, too.”“But then I glanced over to Renee Murawski’s machine” — Ms. Murawski is the content editor for print — “and she showed me the actual letter from the president, which I hadn’t seen yet.”The letter was extraordinary, he thought, not least of all because of the second paragraph, which betrayed Mr. Trump’s concern over the F.B.I.’s inquiries into Russia.“I realized that including the letter itself was a much better solution than simply showing a photograph of Comey. It helped tell the story in a way that was much more explicit.”And Mr. Bodkin’s distinctive treatment earned high praise from readers, many of whom took to Twitter to post photos of the page. (One such tweet, posted by James Corden, the host of “The Late Late Show,” earned several hundred retweets.)As for the tradition of drawing the page by hand, on green paper? That probably dates to the days of Allan M. Siegal, a former assistant managing editor who is much revered in the newsroom.“Al always used a green pen when he was marking up copy, so that people would recognize the source of his edits,” Mr. Bodkin explained. “I’m guessing that’s where the green pad came about — it was his signature color.”But, for Mr. Bodkin, who’s been at The Times since 1980, there are also practical reasons for doing it the old fashioned way.“I kind of know what this stuff is going to look like,” he said. “I don’t need to see the page in any higher fidelity in order to visualize it. I just need to work out the relative position of elements and scale — and that’s much faster with a pencil.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS