AdvertisementSupported byMixing fact and fiction, the movie pulls a thread from history and tries to weave it into a tapestry. On a Nantucket night in 1850, Herman (a wan Ben Whishaw) blusters into the home of an old seaman, Tom Nickerson (Brendan Gleeson), who has a story but is in emotional lockdown. Making his case with cash, Herman persuades Tom to talk, which he does with booze and much actorly harrumphing from Mr. Gleeson. Winding the clock back to 1819, Tom begins the story of the whaling ship, the Essex, and its first mate, Owen Chase, a role that once would have belonged to Burt Lancaster and which Mr. Hemsworth plays with a straight-edged seriousness that is among the movie’s virtues.Directors tend to have a tough time making the act of writing pop visually, and the pleasant scratching sound of a quill on paper only goes so far. So it’s understandable that Mr. Howard, who’s best when he’s in touch with his B-movie pulp side, seems as anxious as Owen to set sail. First though there’s the typical scene-setting, including some dutiful domestic drama with Owen’s loving yet resentful wife (Charlotte Riley, in a placeholder role), which Mr. Howard and company try to enliven with sincere looks, earnest promises and panoramic views of the unconvincingly antiqued island. More promising are Owen’s exchanges with his employer, a shipping company that forces him to serve under George Pollard (Benjamin Walker), an inexperienced captain with family connections.Mr. Howard goes all out when the ship finally sets sail: The camera whips around, going wide and eye-jabbingly close as you follow the crew up the masts, across the deck and into the galley. He comes across as keenly interested in the sweat labor it takes to run a whaling ship (the industrial organization evokes that of a major production like this one), but shortly after touring the operations, the movie loses momentum. One problem is the obvious artificiality of many of the digital effects. These often take you out of the story partly because, unlike the impressionistic painted backdrops in old Hollywood films, they’re trying hard to replicate the real world. When a rope runs along a post, the heat rising from it looks faked, while it’s the grappling men who give the moment a fleeting vibrancy.The biggest mistake here, though, is a misbegotten decorousness that sinks the movie, stoving it as calamitously as an enraged whale. Whether out of squeamishness, Oscar ambitions or because the story never coheres, Mr. Howard puts his pulp instincts in check and consistently (tastefully) pulls back, deploying splatters rather than torrents. Yet Melville was drawn to the story of the Essex for good reason, including the ghastly turn of events that led Mr. Philbrick to drop memorable phrases like “gastronomic incest” into his book. There’s no such corollary — no frenzied horror, no unspeakable truth — in the movie, which takes a 19th-century story of man’s survival in nature and turns it into a reminder that the whole domination of nature thing wasn’t such a great idea.“In the Heart of the Sea” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Gun play and butchery. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute.Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS