AdvertisementSupported byGUADALUPE, Calif. — Daniel R. Small climbed the sand dunes here as carefully as a tour guide scaling ancient Egyptian ruins. “Up there,” he said, sidestepping a scrap of wood and motioning to a pile of rubble in the distance, “was where the temple once stood. To the right, half of a sphinx is still buried in the sand.”On a site visit this month, he pointed out some shrapnel scattered across the dunes, likely from steel cables used to buttress the temple facade. He also spotted some concrete chunks that could have been used, he speculated, for stairs or risers. “But now that these pieces have been wind-whipped or sandblasted for nearly 100 years, they look like tablets from Egypt,” he said. “It’s so bizarre: The longer the set is exposed to the elements, the more authentic it seems somehow.”Filling an entire room at the Hammer Museum with artifacts from Guadalupe, Mr. Small’s work plays with current notions of the artist as archaeologist. It’s also one of several projects in the biennial digging into the early history of Hollywood, seeking some insight into today’s image-obsessed culture.The curators, Aram Moshayedi and Hamza Walker, said they did not seek out a Hollywood focus for the show, the Hammer’s third biennial devoted to emerging or underrecognized artists in Los Angeles. But Mr. Walker said the theme “makes sense, given the porous nature of the artworks we were thinking about — where music, fashion, film and poetry all rub shoulders with visual art.”“I liked the idea of a black female body with autonomy, moving independently through a public space,” said Ms. Syms.She drew on her own absurd experience at the dentist for her version, set in present-day Los Angeles. The video begins as Ms. Syms, playing with her smartphone, learns only moments after receiving anesthesia that insurance won’t cover wisdom-teeth removal — prompting her to get up from the dentist’s chair and stumble home. (All real-life events, the artist said.) Ms. Syms incorporates a big-laugh snippet from “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air” and even turns a clip from the original silent film into a GIF, ripe for endless looping and recycling.In the “Made in L.A.” catalog, the Los Angeles critic-curator Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer writes about the impact of today’s hyper-accelerated visual culture on the individual, arguing that it’s “more than just ‘too many images too fast’” — it’s resulting in a full-body change. “All is a play of surfaces. All is flow. We digitize ourselves; we circulate and broadcast,” she writes.Ms. Honda uses the stuff of escapism to opposite effect — an investigation into our own patterns of attention and perception. “If anything, my work is meant to push you back into your body,” she said. “You hear your own breathing, your chair squeak, someone’s stomach gurgling.”She said the extra-wide, hard-to-take-in-at-one-glance format also appeals to her: “There’s something about the impossibility of seeing things whole — and the pleasures of only seeing things in your mind.”Her films will be projected on scheduled dates at the Billy Wilder Theater, inside the Hammer Museum. Cases containing film reels are arranged on a pedestal in the galleries, as sculpture.His project operates like a museum within a museum and an intricate restaging of an elaborate stage set, creating a hall of mirrors where visitors can see old Hollywood reflected in the eyes of today’s new artists.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS