AdvertisementSupported byNight OutThe 7:30 p.m. show had already started, and there were no seats left. But Mr. Fowler, 29, who has sleepy eyes, a wayward smile and hair that looks like fireworks in mid-explosion, wasn’t in a hurry.Wearing a custom-designed denim jacket with “Ya Got Spirit Kid” lettered on the back, he bopped around the sidewalk, catching up with the club’s managers and security. Before he moved to Los Angeles last year for the TV show, which also stars Judd Hirsch, Mr. Fowler was a regular at the Comedy Cellar.The managers and bouncers teased him about his “Jermaine Hendrix” hair and having “gone all Hollywood,” and waitresses stopped by for hugs. He hadn’t seen them since August, when he’d stopped in on the way back from his mother’s funeral.Mr. Fowler started doing standup at 17 and moved to New York from Hyattsville, Md., about nine years ago. The Comedy Cellar was one of the first clubs to give him a regular slot.After his 10-minute routine, he loped upstairs to the comedian’s table and downed a few sips of a fruit juice blend, heavy on the maraschino cherries. Mr. Fowler doesn’t drink much, ever since an incident about five years ago outside a nearby 7-Eleven, when he and a couple of fellow comics were inebriated and got into a brawl with a group of men over a misunderstanding about a taxi. A brick was thrown, and they ran away before the police arrived.“After that, I was like, no more appletinis,” he said.He had more old friends to see, so he slipped into the Comedy Cellar’s sister club, the Fat Black Pussycat on nearby West Third Street, stopping to remind the bouncer, Steven King, that he’d ordered a bunch of Girl Scout cookies from his daughter and never received them. Mr. King, who chuckled when another bouncer greeted Mr. Fowler as “Sideshow Bob,” did not seem especially racked with guilt.They ordered fried dumplings, sesame pancakes and an orangeade. “The worst of the Snapples,” said Mr. Fowler, who was shocked to see that Vanessa’s now takes debit cards.Mr. Fowler showed off photos of his 3-month-old. Then the conversation turned to anime, bad action movies and whether Mr. Keneally should get a tattoo. There was more teasing about Mr. Fowler’s hair.He headed out toward the subway, observing how much had changed. It hadn’t been that long since Mr. Fowler had lived in New York, but as he came to the corner of Broome Street, he lost his bearings. His friends tried to point him the wrong way, but he was on to them.They set off toward Union Square, passing graffiti that read, “Laugh Even When It’s Not Funny.” It was questionable advice. And as Mr. Fowler walked on, telling jokes about pizza that tasted like tomato paste and Ovenglow, no one needed to take it.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS